G proteins are a group of membrane resident proteins that recognize activated GPCRs and relay their messages allowing the bound ligand to produce a cellular effect.

There are four main families of G proteins; Gs, Gi, Gq and G12/13.

While a GS G protein stimulates the activation of adenylate cyclase (AC) and thus the production of cAMP, a Gi G protein inhibits the production of AC and thus the production of cAMP.

AC is a membrane bound enzyme activated by Gs and inhibited by Gi.

When activated, AC catalyzes the conversion of adenosine triphosphate (ATP) to cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP).

cAMP activates cAMP-dependent protein kinases, and these kinases cause phosphorylation of certain enzymes specific to the agonist that bound to the receptor.

In the phospholipase C pathway, when the agonist binds to the receptor it activates a Gq protein.

Activated Gq protein then activates phospholipase.

This enzyme catalyzes the cleavage of phosphatidylinositol bi-phosphate into Diacylglycerol (DAG) and Inositol triphosphate (IP3).

IP3 receptor which is a ligand calcium channel is located on the membrane of the ER.

Binding of IP3 with its receptor causes release of Ca2+ ions into the cytoplasm.

Thus, the main goal of IP3 is to increase the cytosolic calcium ion concentration.

Phosphorylation is an important factor in GPCR activation because, after phosphorylation occurs, scaffold proteins known as βarrestins bind to the phosphorylated GPCR to deactivate the receptor and allow for internalization and recycling.

CB1R is predominantly Gi-coupled, whereas 5-HT2aR is predominantly Gq-coupled.

Although both GPCRs are capable of engaging alternate signaling pathways such as G12/13, Gi- and Gq-dependent signaling remain the best-characterized and therefore most-amenable to high through-put screening.

Consequently, G protein-dependent CB1R signaling can be measured by a decrease in the accumulation of cAMP, while 5-HT2AR can be measured by an increase in Ca2+ release from the endoplasmic reticulum.

Because both receptors interact with βarrestins we can also measure a given ligand’s activity via an increase in βarrestin recruitment to the intracellular face of the receptor.

Routinely used high-throughput in vitro assays have been developed to readily measure secondary messenger pathways including cAMP and Ca2+ or protein-protein interactions such as βarrestin recruitment that we can use to quantify ligand potency, efficacy, and cooperativity.

Although these intracellular signaling cascades are initiated upon a ligand binding to a GPCR, the activation is not equal and depends on which particular ligand binds, often referred to as ligand bias.

The 2 major pathways of focus within the field of GPCR pharmacology are the G protein and the βarrestin pathway.

In some cases, these pathways are activated equally in which case the compound is called an unbiased agonist.

As an example, the 5-HT2AR agonists lysergic acid diethylamide (LSD) and ergotamine activate βarrestin recruitment with greater potency and efficacy than Gq and are therefore considered to be βarrestin biased agonists.

An important consideration in GPCR pharmacology also pertains to the site at which a ligand binds to the GPCR.

The conserved endogenous ligand of any GPCR always binds to a site called the orthosteric binding site.

For CB1R this is 2-arachidonlyglycerol (2-AG) and non-orthosteric binding sites on GPCRs are referred to as allosteric binding sites.

The most notable allosteric ligand amongst all GPCRs is cholesterol.

Allosteric ligands have received much investigation in the past 15 years because they offer several potential advantages over orthosteric ligands, including greater receptor subtype selectivity because allosteric sites are less evolutionaryconserved than orthosteric sites; and limited dependence, tolerance, or abuse liability because the ligands may only be active in the presence of the endogenous orthosteric compound.

These ligands have the ability to promote endogenous receptor activation, but not direct activation compared to an orthosteric ligand.

Allosteric modulators may be positive allosteric modulators 6 (PAMs) or negative allosteric modulators (NAMs).

A PAM may enhance the affinity, potency, and/or efficacy of the primary ligand whereas a NAM may reduce the affinity, potency, and/or efficacy of the primary ligand.

Although there are 6 classes of GPCRs, we will only focus on class A GPCRs because the receptor’s of focus in these studies - CB1R, CB2R, and 5-HT2AR - are all class A.

Allosteric sites on class A GPCRs are well documented.

The major reason for this is that they have vast potential in terms of drug development.

There are currently a few that are approved medications: ticagrelor, the anti-thrombosis medication that targets the P2Y purinoceptor 12 (P2Y12R) receptor; maraviroc an HIV medication that targets the CCR5 chemokine receptor; and plerixafor used during bone marrow transplants which targets the CXCR4 chemokine receptor.

The binding of an allosteric modulator to its separate site from the orthosteric endogenous ligand results in a conformational change in shape to the orthosteric site which will affect this site in one of 3 ways: PAMs increase the affinity, potency, and/or efficacy of the orthosteric ligand; NAMs decrease the affinity, potency and/or efficacy of the orthosteric ligand; or silent allosteric modulator (SAM) causes no change in the affinity or efficacy of the orthosteric ligand.

The type 1 cannabinoid receptor (CB1R) is a class A GPCR encoded by the CNR1 gene in humans.

Specifically, CB1R is expressed in the peripheral nervous system (PNS) and central nervous system (CNS) of mammals and is involved in neuromodulatory processes.

Although CB1R is expressed in both the CNS and PNS it has higher concentrations in the CNS specifically within the hippocampus, basal ganglia, cerebellum, neocortex and spine.

Within these systems CB1R is found on pre-synaptic axon terminals of both glutamatergic and GABAergic neurons where activation of the receptor by endogenous cannabinoids limits further synaptic transmission from the pre-synaptic neuron.

Under the current model, the endogenous cannabinoids 2- arachodinylgylcerol (2-AG) and anandamide (AEA) are synthesized from membrane associated 9 lipid precursors on demand in response to physiological stimuli such as membrane depolarization in the post-synaptic neuron and travel in a retrograde manner to the pre-synaptic neuron to facilitate this CB1R-mediated and stimulus-dependent suppression of neurotransmitter release.

In mammals CB1R orthosteric activation by exogenous cannabinoids such as Δ 9-tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) and CP55,940 lead to decreased movement, anti-nociception and a decrease in body temperature accompanied by intoxication.

On the other hand, the endocannabinoid AEA does not produce intoxication but rather reduces pain, anxiety and stress.

CB1R is comprised of 472 amino acids and there are 8 published crystal structures for the receptor available on the protein data bank.

In their inactive states, both CB1R and CB2R contain a salt bridge between D6.30 and R3.50.

Upon agonist binding, receptor activation occurs via a conformational rearrangement of W6.48 and F3.36 which consequently breaks the salt bridge.

This salt bridge is thought to keep both CB1R and CB2R in their inactive states and the breaking of this lock is hypothesized to activate the receptor putting it in an agonist conformation.

In terms of critical residues in the orthosteric binding pocket, mutagenesis studies have shown that S3837.39A mutation drastically reduces (50 – 100 fold) the affinity of both AM4056 and HU210.

This is due to the loss of a H-bond when the serine is mutated to an alanine.

This residue is conserved in CB2R; thus this H-bond appear to be critical for activity in both receptors.

CB1R has gained much interest within the past few years because it is the receptor that mediates the intoxicating effects of THC from the Cannabis sativa plant.

Beyond THC, Cannabis sativa may produce upwards of 500 other phytocannabinoids of which approximately 120 have been identified.

The discovery of naturally-occurring plant cannabinoids and the development of novel synthetic cannabinoids that target CB1R both represent important pursuits for novel therapeutics in the contexts of pain, psychiatric conditions, neurodegenerative diseases, and metabolic disorders.

