
==== Front
Neurosci ResNeurosci. ResNeuroscience Research0168-01021872-8111Elsevier S0168-0102(18)30383-310.1016/j.neures.2018.08.003ArticleCircuit mechanisms and computational models of REM sleep Héricé Charlotte 1Patel Amisha A. 1Sakata Shuzo shuzo.sakata@strath.ac.uk⁎Strathclyde Institute of Pharmacy and Biomedical Sciences, University of Strathclyde, 161 Cathedral Street, Glasgow G4 0RE, UK⁎ Corresponding author. shuzo.sakata@strath.ac.uk1 These authors contributed equally to this work.

1 3 2019 3 2019 140 77 92 11 5 2018 3 7 2018 10 7 2018 © 2018 The Authors2018This is an open access article under the CC BY license (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/).Highlights
• REM sleep was discovered in the 1950s.

• Many hypothalamic and brainstem areas have been found to contribute to REM sleep.

• An up-to-date picture of REM-sleep-regulating circuits is reviewed.

• A brief overview of computational models for REM sleep regulation is provided.

• Outstanding issues for future studies are discussed.



Rapid eye movement (REM) sleep or paradoxical sleep is an elusive behavioral state. Since its discovery in the 1950s, our knowledge of the neuroanatomy, neurotransmitters and neuropeptides underlying REM sleep regulation has continually evolved in parallel with the development of novel technologies. Although the pons was initially discovered to be responsible for REM sleep, it has since been revealed that many components in the hypothalamus, midbrain, pons, and medulla also contribute to REM sleep. In this review, we first provide an up-to-date overview of REM sleep-regulating circuits in the brainstem and hypothalamus by summarizing experimental evidence from neuroanatomical, neurophysiological and gain- and loss-of-function studies. Second, because quantitative approaches are essential for understanding the complexity of REM sleep-regulating circuits and because mathematical models have provided valuable insights into the dynamics underlying REM sleep genesis and maintenance, we summarize computational studies of the sleep-wake cycle, with an emphasis on REM sleep regulation. Finally, we discuss outstanding issues for future studies.

Keywords
REM sleepBrainstemHypothalamusComputational modelCell typeBrain state
==== Body
1 Introduction
Brain states vary from moment to moment throughout the day. Humans typically cycle between three major behavioral states: wakefulness, rapid eye movement (REM) sleep and non-REM (NREM) sleep, with additional stages of NREM sleep. REM and NREM sleep have distinct characteristics. For example, NREM sleep is characterized by slow, large-amplitude fluctuations of cortical electroencephalograms (EEGs) whereas REM sleep is characterized by fast, small-amplitude fluctuations of EEGs. Although these sleep states are closely related with each other with respect to neural mechanisms and functions (Brown et al., 2012; Hobson and Pace-Schott, 2002; Pace-Schott and Hobson, 2002; Scammell et al., 2017; Stickgold et al., 2001; Weber and Dan, 2016), this review article particularly focuses on the mechanisms underlying REM sleep.

REM sleep is associated with vivid dreaming, rapid eye movement, muscle atonia and other body homeostatic signatures. Electrophysiological characteristics of REM sleep include desynchronized cortical EEG, hippocampal theta waves and ponto-geniculo-occipital (PGO) waves (Aserinsky and Kleitman, 1953; Brown et al., 2012; Dement and Kleitman, 1957; Jouvet, 1962; Luppi et al., 2012; Peever and Fuller, 2017; Scammell et al., 2017; Weber and Dan, 2016; Callaway et al., 1987; Datta, 1997). REM sleep is also known as “paradoxical sleep” because the desynchronized EEG observed during REM sleep resembles that during wakefulness, but without muscle tone (Jouvet et al., 1959). REM sleep also contains phasic and tonic periods: phasic periods are characterized by bursts of rapid eye movements whereas no rapid eye movements occur during tonic periods (Wehrle et al., 2007; Moruzzi, 1963). Although detailed characteristics (e.g., REM sleep duration, eye movements) vary across species, birds and lizards also exhibit similar electrophysiological features of REM sleep, suggesting that REM sleep evolved in a common ancestor early in amniote evolution (Low et al., 2008; Monnier, 1980; Siegel, 1995; Joiner, 2016; Shein-Idelson et al., 2016).

The sleep stage with REM and desynchronized EEG activity was originally discovered in humans in the 1950s (Aserinsky and Kleitman, 1953; Dement and Kleitman, 1957), and subsequently confirmed in cats (Dement, 1958). Jouvet et al. comprehensively described the main characteristics of REM sleep and established the notion that the pons is responsible for REM sleep (Jouvet, 1962; Jouvet and Michel, 1959).

Since these landmark studies, with the advent of technological advancements, our understanding of the neurobiology underlying REM sleep regulation has expanded considerably. In the late 1950s and 60s, lesion, electrophysiological and pharmacological experiments identified the brainstem structures and neurotransmitters responsible for REM sleep (Jouvet, 1962). In the 70s, unit recording experiments identified brainstem neurons which are exclusively active (REM-on) or silent (REM-off) during REM sleep in cats (McCarley and Hobson, 1971; Hobson et al., 1975; Jouvet, 1972). Subsequently, as novel approaches ranging from Fos mapping and juxtacellular recording to recent genetic and molecular technologies have been adopted, various hypothalamic and brainstem nuclei have been identified to contribute to REM sleep (Boissard et al., 2002; Hassani et al., 2009; Krenzer et al., 2011; Lu et al., 2006b; Luppi et al., 2017; Scammell et al., 2017; Weber et al., 2015; Weber and Dan, 2016; Brown et al., 2012).

Trends in choice of animal models have also changed (Fig. 1): Although the cat model initially dominated the field, the use of rats had become increasingly popular until the 2000s. This is probably due to their smaller size and the development of anatomical, histochemical and electrophysiological methods. Over the past decade, the use of mice has rapidly gained momentum due to the revolution of molecular genetic approaches for systems-level studies, such as viral tracing, optogenetics and chemogenetics. While there is no doubt that mice will soon become a dominant species in this field, it should be also noted that REM sleep has been confirmed in different species including the Pogona dragons (Shein-Idelson et al., 2016), indicating the importance of comparative studies.Fig. 1 Publication records on REM sleep research. The number of publication records on REM sleep was extracted from the PubMed database for each animal species. The publication records of computational studies on sleep-wake cycle were also extracted (‘model’).

Fig. 1

In addition to animal studies, computational/mathematical studies of sleep-wake cycles have also made important contributions to this field since the pioneering studies by McCarley and Hobson (1975) and Borbely (1982). Given the complexity of sleep regulatory circuits, such quantitative approaches will become increasingly essential. Indeed, there has been an upward trend of publication records over the past two decades (Fig. 1).

In the present review, we summarize the current status of our understanding of REM sleep regulation, with a focus on the circuit mechanisms and computational models. First, we summarize the current understanding of key brain regions and neuropeptides within REM sleep-regulating circuits. Second, we cover a range of computational models to explain the sleep-wake cycle. Finally, we discuss outstanding issues and future challenges in this field. Readers should also refer to other review articles (Brown et al., 2012; Luppi et al., 2013a; Peever and Fuller, 2017; Saper et al., 2010; Scammell et al., 2017; Weber and Dan, 2016).

2 REM sleep-regulating circuits
REM sleep-regulating circuits are widespread throughout the brainstem (midbrain, pons, and medulla) and the hypothalamus and involve a range of neurotransmitters and neuropeptides. In this section, we survey the literature on key components of REM sleep-regulating circuits within the brainstem and hypothalamus (Fig. 2).Fig. 2 Diagram of REM sleep-regulating circuits. Brainstem and hypothalamic areas described in the main text are shown, with a simplified view of activity during REM sleep as well as connectivity. DMH, dorsomedial hypothalamus; DpMe, dorsal part of the deep mesencephalic reticular nuclei; DRN, dorsal raphe nucleus; eVLPO, extended area of the ventrolateral preoptic area; GiA, alpha gigantocellular nucleus; GiV, ventral gigantocellular nucleus; LC, locus coeruleus; LDT, laterodorsal tegmental nucleus; LPGi, lateral paragigantocellular nucleus; MCH, melanin concentrating hormone neurons; OH, orexin/hypocretin neurons; PPT, pedunculopontine tegmental nucleus; RMg, raphe magnus; RPA, nucleus raphe pallidus; SLD, sublaterodorsal nucleus; vlPAG, ventrolateral periaqueductal gray. Glu, glutamate; ACh, acetylcholine; GABA, γ-aminobutyric acid; Gly, glycine.

Fig. 2

2.1 Brainstem REM sleep-regulating circuits
Research on brainstem REM sleep-regulating circuits has a long history since pioneering studies by Jouvet and his colleagues (Jouvet and Michel, 1959; Jouvet, 1962). Despite numerous efforts over the past six decades, a comprehensive picture of brainstem REM sleep-regulating circuits is still lacking. Here we focus on the key brainstem nuclei involved in REM sleep regulation, by summarizing their 1) anatomical features, 2) neural activity during REM sleep and 3) gain- and loss-of-function studies.

2.1.1 Sublaterodorsal nucleus
The sublaterodorsal (tegmental) nucleus (SLD) in rodents has long been implicated in REM sleep genesis and muscle atonia (Luppi et al., 2006, 2012; Luppi et al., 2017; Scammell et al., 2017).

Anatomy. The SLD is located immediately ventral from the periaqueductal gray (PAG) and corresponds to the rostral part of the subcoeruleus nucleus. It is equivalent to the peri-locus coeruleus alpha (peri-LCα) in the cat (Sakai et al., 1979, 2001) and is composed of glutamatergic, GABAergic and cholinergic neurons (Sakai et al., 2001; Boissard et al., 2002).

The SLD receives glutamatergic inputs from the lateral and ventrolateral PAG (vlPAG), the primary motor cortex, the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BNST) and the central nucleus of the amygdala. It also receives GABAergic inputs from the mesencephalic, pontine reticular nuclei and to a lesser extent the parvicellular reticular nucleus and contralateral SLD (Boissard et al., 2003; Lu et al., 2006b). Although a recent study with a cell-type-specific tracing approach confirmed the projection from vlPAG GABAergic neurons onto glutamatergic neurons in the SLD (Weber et al., 2018), input specificity onto each SLD cell-type remains to be fully characterized.

SLD glutamatergic neurons project rostrally to the intralaminar nuclei of the thalamus, posterior hypothalamus, and basal forebrain (BF), and caudally to glycinergic neurons in the raphe magnus (RMg), ventral and alpha gigantocellular nuclei (GiA and GiV) and the lateral paragigantocellular nucleus (LPGi). These rostral and caudal projections are thought to be responsible for cortical desynchronization and muscle atonia, respectively (Sakai et al., 1979; Jones, 1991a; Boissard et al., 2002).

Activity. SLD glutamatergic neurons are primarily REM-on, meaning that they are more active during REM sleep compared to non-REM (NREM) sleep and wakefulness (Sakai, 1985; Sakai and Koyama, 1996; Lu et al., 2006b; Clement et al., 2011). It has been repeatedly shown that SLD glutamatergic neurons strongly express Fos after prolonged REM sleep in rats and mice (Clement et al., 2011; Krenzer et al., 2011). Although SLD GABAergic neurons have been initially reported to be REM-on (Lu et al., 2006b), a subsequent report does not support this observation (Sapin et al., 2009). SLD cholinergic neurons do not appear to be REM-on based on Fos mapping (Verret et al., 2005) although an extracellular recording study demonstrated that a subpopulation of SLD cholinergic neurons are active during both REM sleep and wakefulness (Sakai, 2012). Thus, although the SLD has been implicated in REM sleep genesis, future studies need to reconcile the heterogeneity of state-dependent and cell-type-specific firing within the SLD.

Function. Pharmacologically GABAa antagonists (bicuculine or gabazine) and glutamate agonist can induce REM sleep (Boissard et al., 2002; Xi et al., 1999; Onoe and Sakai, 1995), suggesting that tonic glutamatergic barrage and the removal of a tonic GABAergic tone can cause REM sleep. In contrast, cholinergic agonist (carbachol) induces REM when injected into the cat peri-LCα, but not in all cases when applied to the rat SLD (Boissard et al., 2002; Bourgin et al., 1995; Deurveilher et al., 1997; Gnadt and Pegram, 1986; Shiromani and Fishbein, 1986; Velazquez-Moctezuma et al., 1989). Given the contradictory results of cholinergic effects on REM sleep induction, further studies are necessary to quantitatively determine how the balance between different transmitter inputs onto SLD neurons can contribute to REM sleep induction.

Furthermore, a recent chemogenetic study demonstrated that glutamatergic neurons in the rostrolateral SLD (“Atoh1-E10.5-medial cells”) promote NREM sleep and inhibit REM sleep (Hayashi et al., 2015). These glutamatergic neurons project to GABAergic neurons in the deep mesencephalic reticular nucleus (DpMe), which negatively regulate REM sleep, possibly inhibiting REM sleep-promoting neurons in the SLD. Therefore, REM sleep-regulating circuitry within the SLD is more complex than previously appreciated.

The SLD also plays a causal role in muscle atonia. A focal lesion of the SLD or the deletion of glutamate signaling induces a REM sleep-like state, but without muscle atonia, thus implicating aberrant glutamatergic transmission in REM sleep behavioral disorder (Krenzer et al., 2011; Lu et al., 2006b). A prominent explanatory mechanism of muscle atonia is that because SLD glutamatergic neurons project to glycinergic/GABAergic neurons in the ventral medulla (vM), which in turn inhibit spinal motor neurons, the removal of SLD excitatory inputs onto vM cannot induce muscle atonia (Boissard et al., 2002; Luppi et al., 2017; Lu et al., 2006b). However, as we discuss below, distinct vM circuits have been implicated in REM sleep regulation and muscle atonia. Therefore, detailed circuit analysis between the SLD and vM is still required. Furthermore, the role of SLD GABAergic neurons is also unclear.

2.1.2 Ventrolateral periaqueductal gray and deep mesencephalic reticular nucleus
The ventrolateral periaqueductal gray (vlPAG) together with the adjacent dorsal part of the deep mesencephalic reticular nucleus (DpMe) has been implicated in gating REM sleep by receiving inputs from the hypothalamus and other brainstem structures (Luppi et al., 2013a; Petitjean et al., 1975).

Anatomy. The vlPAG is a part of the large midbrain structure, the PAG, and is located ventrolaterally within the caudal section of the PAG. vlPAG neurons are composed of glutamatergic, GABAergic and dopaminergic (DA) neurons. vlPAG DA neurons are often referred as to the dorso-caudal extension of the A10 group, which includes DA neurons in the dorsal raphe nucleus (DRN) (Cho et al., 2017; Dougalis et al., 2012; Hokfelt et al., 1984).

The vlPAG is an anatomical hub of REM sleep regulatory circuits within the brainstem. vlPAG neurons receive inputs from the forebrain, hypothalamus and brainstem, such as the central nucleus of amygdala, the zona incertia (ZI), the nucleus accumbens, the lateral hypothalamus, the lamina terminalis including the median preoptic nucleus (MnPO), the extended part of the ventrolateral preoptic nucleus (eVLPO), SLD, peduncluopontine tegmental nucleus/laterodorsal tegmental nucleus (PPT/LDT), and the vM (Boissard et al., 2003; Burgess et al., 2013; Clement et al., 2012; Hsieh et al., 2011; Liu et al., 2017; Uschakov et al., 2007, 2009; Weber et al., 2015; Zhang et al., 2013; Lu et al., 2006b).

Both GABAergic and non-GABAergic vlPAG neurons project to the SLD (Boissard et al., 2003; Weber et al., 2018) while GABAergic neurons also strongly innervate the DRN (Gervasoni et al., 2000) and the locus coeruleus (LC) (Weber et al., 2018). DA neurons have reciprocal connections with the medial prefrontal cortex, ventrolateral preoptic nucleus (VLPO), orexin/hypocretin neurons, LDT cholinergic neurons, and LC noradrenergic neurons (Lu et al., 2006a).

Activity. REM-on and –off neurons are intermingled within the vlPAG and the DpMe, which reflects the complex nature of anatomical properties described above. While the majority of GABAergic neurons are REM-off, a subset of GABAergic neurons are also REM-on (Lu et al., 2006b; Sapin et al., 2009; Weber et al., 2018). REM-off neurons have been suggested to suppress SLD glutamatergic neurons during wakefulness and NREM sleep to prevent muscle atonia and REM sleep induction (Lu et al., 2006b).

Function. The functional role of vlPAG neurons in REM sleep was first suggested with a lesion study carried out by Jouvet and his colleagues (Petitjean et al., 1975). While neurotoxic lesions in the vlPAG and DpMe promote REM sleep (Lu et al., 2006b), muscimol (GABAa agonist) application increases REM sleep in both cats (Sastre et al., 1996) and rats (Sapin et al., 2009). Furthermore, optogenetic activation of vlPAG GABAergic neurons suppresses REM sleep generation (Weber et al., 2015, 2018). As described above, GABAergic neurons in the DpMe receive inputs from glutamatergic neurons located in the rostrolateral SLD. Chemogenetic activation of DpMe GABAergic neurons inhibit REM sleep and promote NREM sleep, whereas chemogenetic silencing enhances REM sleep (Hayashi et al., 2015). These results are consistent with the notion that REM-off neurons located within the vlPAG and DpMe suppress REM sleep.

The function of REM-on neurons, however, remains elusive. Optogenetic stimulation of vlPAG GABAergic neurons can inhibit REM-on GABAergic neurons (Weber et al., 2018), suggesting intrinsic connections between REM-on and –off GABAergic neurons (Sapin et al., 2009; Weber et al., 2018). It has been proposed that REM-on GABAergic neurons in vlPAG can be activated by cholinergic inputs, resulting in the suppression of DRN serotonergic neurons (Yang and Brown, 2014). These results suggest that REM-on and REM-off GABAergic neurons in the vlPAG play antagonistic roles in REM sleep regulation.

vlPAG DA neurons are wake-promoting (Lu et al., 2006a), but the functional role of vlPAG glutamatergic neurons remains unclear. In addition, because the vlPAG receives inputs from the amygdala (Burgess et al., 2013) and has long been implicated in both fear-associated defensive behaviors and pain (Behbehani, 1995; Tovote et al., 2016), the relationship between anxiety/fear and sleep would be an interesting topic to explore.

2.1.3 Ventral medulla
The functional role of the ventral medulla (vM) in REM sleep and muscle atonia has been actively debated (Luppi et al., 2012, 2006; Luppi et al., 2017; Sapin et al., 2009; Lu et al., 2006b; Weber et al., 2015). Accumulating evidence suggests that vM neurons play distinct roles in REM sleep and muscle atonia depending on circuits as summarized below.

Anatomy. The vM is located within the ventrocaudal portion of the brainstem. It includes the raphe magnus (RMg), ventral and alpha gigantocellular nuclei (GiA and GiV) and the lateral paragigantocellular nucleus (LPGi), and other nuclei. GiA, GiV and RMg are located ventromedially within the vM, thus they are collectively known as the ventromedial medulla (vmM). Within the vM, diverse cell types are intermingled (Holmes and Jones, 1994; Leger et al., 2009; Rampon et al., 1996): while glutamatergic and GABAergic neurons are widely distributed, many GABAergic neurons are colocalized with glycine. Tyrosine hydroxylase positive neurons and a dense cluster of cholinergic neurons can be found in the LPGi and the nucleus ambiguus, respectively. Serotonergic neurons can be found in the RMg (B3 cell group) and the nucleus raphe pallidus (RPA) (B1 cell group).

The vM receives inputs from the spinal cord, medulla, pons, midbrain, hypothalamus, amygdala, and cortex (Sirieix et al., 2012; Van Bockstaele et al., 1989; Andrezik et al., 1981). Of these, GABA/glycinergic neurons receive strong glutamatergic inputs from the SLD (Fort et al., 2009; Luppi et al., 2013b).

GABA and/or glycine containing neurons in the vmM strongly innervate spinal motor neurons (Holstege, 1991; Holstege and Bongers, 1991). On the other hand, the LPGi project to the solitary tract, parabrachial nucleus, and Kӧlliker-Fuse nucleus (Guyenet and Young, 1987; Sirieix et al., 2012). LPGi GABAergic neurons provide inputs to the LC (Ennis and Aston-Jones, 1989; Sirieix et al., 2012). Interestingly, distinct populations of GABAergic neurons within the vM project rostrally to the vlPAG and caudally to the spinal cord (Weber et al., 2015) although the exact distribution of these populations within the vM remains unclear. Serotonergic cell groups (B1 and B3) in the vM also project to diverse areas, including the spinal cord, Kӧlliker-Fuse nucleus, LDT, SLD, LC, inferior colliculus, part of the thalamus, hypothalamus, BF and hippocampus (Loewy et al., 1981). Detailed cell type-specific projections, including glutamatergic, cholinergic, and aminergic projections, remain to be explored.

Activity. GiV GABAergic neurons are REM-on in both cats (Siegel et al., 1979) and rodents (Maloney et al., 2000; Sapin et al., 2009). An enhanced Fos expression was observed following recovery from REM sleep deprivation in GiV, GiA and RMg GABAergic/glycinergic neurons, but to a lesser extent in the LPGi (Valencia Garcia et al., 2018). Indeed, LPGi GABAergic neurons show diverse firing responses including REM-on, REM-off, and other types (Sirieix et al., 2012). A recent optogenetic tagging study (Weber et al., 2015) showed that firing rates of vM GABAergic neurons increase gradually over ∼30 s before the NREM to REM transition and abruptly decrease at the end of REM sleep. Non-GABAergic neurons, on the other hand, respond with an increase in firing ∼10 s before the onset of REM sleep and a gradual decrease at the termination of REM sleep. Many of these non-GABAergic neurons were most active during running or moving. RPA serotonergic neurons are REM-off (Heym et al., 1982). Thus, the composition of REM-on and –off neurons vary across nuclei and cell types within the vM.

Function. The functional role of vM neurons in REM sleep induction and muscle atonia has been actively debated (Fort et al., 2009; Luppi et al., 2013b; Valencia Garcia et al., 2018; Weber et al., 2015; Lu et al., 2006b). For example, GiV neurons have long been implicated in muscle atonia by receiving strong glutamatergic inputs from the SLD and co-releasing GABA and glycine onto spinal motor neurons (Luppi et al., 2012; Fort et al., 2009; Luppi et al., 2013b). However, lesioning the vM has had no effect on muscle atonia (Lu et al., 2006b). Weber and his colleague (Weber et al., 2015) recently demonstrated the causal role of the vM in REM sleep regulation, rather than muscle atonia: optogenetic activation of vM GABAergic neurons induces and prolongs REM sleep and chemogenetics inhibition of vM GABAergic neurons reduces REM sleep quantities. Another recent study specifically targeted the vmM (GiV, GiA and RMg) to demonstrate that genetic inactivation of vmM GABAergic/glycinergic neurons does not affect sleep architecture including REM sleep, but suppresses muscle atonia (Valencia Garcia et al., 2018). Thus, if the optogenetic/chemogenetic study (Weber et al., 2015) primarily targeted the LPGi, rather than the vmM, it is probable that vmM and LPGi inhibitory neurons may play distinct roles in muscle atonia and REM sleep, respectively. Further investigation to reconcile these observations is required.

2.1.4 Pedunculopontine tegmental nucleus and laterodorsal tegmental nucleus
The pedunculopontine tegmental nucleus (PPT) and laterodorsal tegmental nucleus (LTD) are a brainstem cholinergic system and have long been implicated in REM sleep, arousal and cortical desynchronization (McCarley, 2007; Mena-Segovia and Bolam, 2017; Scammell et al., 2017; Weber and Dan, 2016). Although pontine cholinergic neurons were originally thought to play a causal role in REM sleep induction, the exact role of the PPT/LDT in REM sleep remains to be determined fully (Grace and Horner, 2015; Grace, 2015; Kroeger et al., 2017; Van Dort et al., 2015).

Anatomy. The PPT and LDT are located within the caudal cholinergic column (Ch5 and Ch6) and contain a heterogeneous population of cholinergic, glutamatergic and GABAergic neurons (Clements and Grant, 1990; Wang and Morales, 2009; Ford et al., 1995). Subpopulations of these cell classes expressed calcium-binding proteins (calbindin, calretinin, and parvalbumin) and they are heterogeneously distributed within the PPT (Martinez-Gonzalez et al., 2012).

The PPT/LDT receives inputs from diverse areas of the brain, including the cortex, thalamus, hypothalamus, pons, cerebellum, medulla, spinal cord and the basal ganglia (Semba and Fibiger, 1992; Saper and Loewy, 1982; Martinez-Gonzalez et al., 2011). Within the brainstem, DRN and LC neurons project to the PPT (Jones and Yang, 1985; Vertes, 1991), with preferential projection from DRN serotonergic neurons to non-cholinergic neurons (Steininger et al., 1997).

Both cholinergic and non-cholinergic axonal projections have been traced at the single cell resolution (Martinez-Gonzalez et al., 2011; Mena-Segovia and Bolam, 2017; Mena-Segovia et al., 2008). Outputs include, but are not limited to the thalamus, basal ganglia, BF, hypothalamus, LC, pontine reticular formation, ventral tegmental area (VTA), SLD and DRN (Cornwall et al., 1990; Ford et al., 1995; Luppi et al., 1995; Martinez-Gonzalez et al., 2011; Mena-Segovia and Bolam, 2017; Semba et al., 1990). Interestingly, the topographical organization of ascending cholinergic innervation was also described (Mena-Segovia and Bolam, 2017): rostral PPT cholinergic neurons preferentially innervate motor-related areas, such as the basal ganglia, whereas LDT cholinergic neurons preferentially innervate limbic-related areas, such as the VTA.

Activity. Different cell types show distinct state-dependent firing patterns: cholinergic neurons are most active during wakefulness and REM sleep, whereas glutamatergic and GABAergic neurons appear to be maximally active either during wake, REM sleep or during both wake and REM (Datta and Siwek, 2002; Steriade et al., 1990; el Mansari et al., 1989; Cox et al., 2016; Boucetta et al., 2014; McCarley and Hobson, 1971). Consistent with these findings, Fos mapping studies have also shown that both cholinergic and GABAergic neurons are active during REM sleep in both cats and rats (Verret et al., 2005; Maloney et al., 1999; Torterolo et al., 2001).

Function. There is an ongoing debate on the functional role of the PPT/LDT in the initiation and maintenance of REM sleep. Lesion (Petrovic et al., 2013; Shouse and Siegel, 1992; Webster and Jones, 1988; Sastre et al., 1981) and pharmacological (Boissard et al., 2002; Gnadt and Pegram, 1986; Deurveilher et al., 1997; George et al., 1964; Amatruda et al., 1975; Baghdoyan et al., 1984; Coleman et al., 2004; Pollock and Mistlberger, 2005) studies have provided inconsistent and contradictory results. Recently, chemogenetic activation of PPT neurons was performed (Kroeger et al., 2017): glutamatergic activation increases the duration of wakefulness, while GABAergic activation moderately reduces the duration of REM sleep. Consistent with pharmacological studies (Boissard et al., 2002; Grace et al., 2014), chemogenetic activation of cholinergic neurons has no effect on REM sleep, but promotes light NREM sleep. On the other hand, electrical stimulation of LDT neurons increases the number of REM sleep bouts (Thakkar et al., 1996). Similarly, optogenetic activation of PPT/LDT cholinergic neurons during NREM sleep promotes REM sleep (Van Dort et al., 2015). While the current consensus is that PPT/LDT neurons play a modulatory role in REM sleep generation (Grace and Horner, 2015), state-dependent coordination of PPT/LDT neuronal firing and its influence on downstream nuclei (e.g., SLD and vlPAG) and REM sleep induction need to be fully explored.

2.1.5 Locus coeruleus
Norepinephrine (NE)-producing neurons are located across brainstem nuclei with diverse populations projecting to numerous regions. Of particular interest is the LC, which is one of the most intensively investigated brainstem nuclei in terms of developmental origin, molecular profiles, anatomical connectivity, and physiological and pathophysiological functions (Aston-Jones and Cohen, 2005; Robertson et al., 2013; Schwarz and Luo, 2015).

Anatomy. The LC is located in the dorsal region of the caudal pons, lateral to the LDT and dorsal to the caudal part of the SLD in mice. All LC neurons produce NE by converting from DA using dopamine-beta-hydroxylase (Dbh). Neuropeptide galanin is also expressed in the majority (up to 80%) of LC neurons (Holets et al., 1988; Robertson et al., 2013). Two morphological classes of LC neurons, multipolar and fusiform cells, have been described in the rat (Grzanna and Molliver, 1980; Swanson, 1976). Thus, although all LC neurons are NE-producing, they are not necessarily homogeneous.

LC neurons receive inputs from other arousal systems and project widely throughout the CNS (Kebschull et al., 2016; Luppi et al., 1995; Schwarz and Luo, 2015; Schwarz et al., 2015). Recently, the anatomical input-output relationship of LC-NE neurons was comprehensively characterized by using advanced viral tracing approaches (Schwarz et al., 2015). LC-NE neurons projecting to diverse brain regions receive inputs from similar areas. Thus, they integrate information from, and broadcasts to, many brain regions. However, there is also specificity. For example, medulla-projecting LC-NE neurons receive disproportionally smaller input from the central amygdala than other LC-NE neurons. Although LC neurons were previously thought to be the only source of NE projections to the cortex, NE neurons from other brainstem nuclei also project to the cortex (Robertson et al., 2013). In the context of REM sleep regulation, LC-NE neurons receive strong GABAergic inputs from the vlPAG, and both the dorsal and lateral paragigantocellular nuclei (DPGi and LPGi), which contain REM-on neurons (Gervasoni et al., 2000; Luppi et al., 2017; Verret et al., 2006).

Activity and function. LC neurons are generally REM-off (Aghajanian and VanderMaelen, 1982; Aston-Jones and Bloom, 1981; Hobson et al., 1975; McGinty and Harper, 1976). Thus, they promote arousal and play an antagonistic role in REM sleep. While LC-NE activity correlates with pupil diameter during wakefulness (Aston-Jones and Cohen, 2005), LC-NE neurons are virtually silent during REM sleep. Indeed, the pupil size during REM sleep is minimum (Yuzgec et al., 2018).

NE inhibits PPT/LDT cholinergic neurons (Luebke et al., 1992; Williams and Reiner, 1993) and pharmacological enhancement of NE transmission suppresses REM sleep (Gervasoni et al., 2002; Jones, 1991b; Jones et al., 1969). However, optogenetic inhibition of LC neurons did not alter REM sleep (Carter et al., 2010). These conflicting observations may be reconciled in the future by characterizing the remaining NE containing brainstem nuclei (i.e., A1, A2, A5, A7, LC and subcoeruleus). Indeed, a moderate number of NE neurons (A1 and A2) displayed Fos expression after the recovery of REM deprivation, suggesting that non-LC NE neurons may be important for REM sleep regulation (Leger et al., 2009). Thus, in addition to detailed anatomical study across these nuclei, the exact role of brainstem NE neurons in REM sleep regulation still need to be fully characterized.

2.1.6 Dorsal raphe nucleus
Serotonergic (5-HT) neurons can be found in the raphe nuclei, of which the dorsal raphe nucleus (DRN) (B5 cell group) is the largest serotonergic nucleus (Dahlstrom and Fuxe, 1964; Jacobs and Azmitia, 1992). The role of serotonin in sleep was originally proposed by Jouvet (Jouvet, 1972). However, it has since been shown that DRN serotonergic neurons are wake-promoting and suppress REM sleep, similar to LC-NE neurons (McGinty and Harper, 1976; Trulson and Jacobs, 1979). Nevertheless, because of the diversity of cell types within the DRN as well as serotonin receptors across brain regions, the role of serotonin in sleep remains elusive.

Anatomy. The DRN is located in the midline of the brainstem, ventral to the cerebral aqueduct, occupying the ventral part of the PAG. The DRN neurons are composed of serotonergic, glutamatergic and GABAergic neurons, many of which also express a variety of neuropeptides, such as galanin and substance P (Monti, 2010b). A subset of serotonergic neurons also co-release glutamate (Fischer et al., 2014). There is a small population of DA neurons in the DRN (Cho et al., 2017; Dougalis et al., 2012; Hokfelt et al., 1984).

The DRN receives GABAergic inputs from multiple regions, such as the BF, hypothalamus, substantia nigra, VTA, ventral PAG, rostral pontine reticular nucleus, and dorsal gigantocellular nucleus (Gervasoni et al., 2000; Luppi et al., 2008). DRN neurons also receive inputs from neurons releasing a variety of neurotransmitters and neuropeptides, such as histamine, DA, NE, ACh, orexin/hypocretin and melanin-concentrating hormone (MCH) (Panula et al., 1988; Sakai et al., 1977; Beckstead et al., 1979; Saavedra et al., 1976; Woolf and Butcher, 1989; Lee et al., 2005a; Hervieu et al., 2000; Kilduff and de Lecea, 2001).

DRN neurons innervate a wide range of areas, including the cerebral cortex, amygdala, BF, thalamus, preoptic and hypothalamic areas, LC, and pontine reticular formation (Imai et al., 1986; Peyron et al., 1998a). Based on the distribution of cell types and anatomical projections, six subdivisions of the DRN have been proposed in rats (Lowry et al., 2008; Monti, 2010b).

Activity. Although the majority of 5-HT neurons are active during wake and virtually inactive during REM sleep (McGinty and Harper, 1976; Trulson and Jacobs, 1979), heterogeneity of their firing has been reported in cats, rats and mice (Allers and Sharp, 2003; Hajos et al., 1995; Sakai and Crochet, 2001; Urbain et al., 2006; Sakai, 2011). For example, a fourth of the DRN neurons are sleep-active and around one-fifth are active during both wakefulness and REM sleep in mice. They are topographically organized (Sakai, 2011). DRN-DA neurons were observed to be most active during wakefulness (Cho et al., 2017).

Function. Pharmacological studies indicate that GABAergic inputs to the DRN play a key role in REM induction (Gervasoni et al., 2000; Nitz and Siegel, 1997). GABA concentrations in the DRN increase during REM sleep and pharmacological activation/inactivation of GABAa receptors increases and decreases REM sleep, respectively. GABAergic neurons in the vlPAG, DPGi and LPGi seem to provide the source of these GABAergic inputs.

While DRN DA neurons can induce arousal (Cho et al., 2017), the serotonergic effects on REM sleep are complex, depending on the expression and location of receptor subtypes (Monti, 2010a): for example, 5-HT1A receptor expressing DRN 5-HT neurons inhibit adenylate cyclase. The administration of 5-HT1A agonists into the DRN reduces 5-HT concentration and enhances REM sleep (Portas et al., 1996). On the other hand, 5-HT1A receptor also expresses in downstream PPT/LDT cholinergic neurons. Microinjection of 5-HT1A receptor agonists into the LDT suppresses REM sleep (Monti and Jantos, 2004). Thus, serotonergic effects on REM sleep are site-specific.

In summary, although it is widely thought that most serotonergic neurons are wake-promoting and REM-sleep-inhibiting, the exact roles of DRN neurons in sleep are still elusive. Because serotonin and sleep are closely related with depression, further studies on DRN neurons would be relevant from both basic scientific and clinical viewpoints.

2.2 Hypothalamic REM sleep-regulating circuits
The hypothalamus consists of highly heterogeneous cell populations (Romanov et al., 2017) and contributes to diverse biological functions including sleep related functions, such as the circadian rhythm, the stabilization of the sleep-wake cycle, and REM sleep regulation. In particular, a wide range of neuropeptides play a role in sleep regulation (Steiger and Holsboer, 1997). Recent genetic-based circuit studies have significantly contributed to the advancement in this topic. In this section, we summarize the 1) molecular features, 2) anatomical features, 3) neural activity during REM sleep, and 4) gain- and loss-of-function studies, of three neuropeptidergic systems within the hypothalamus (Fig. 2): orexin/hypocretin, melanin-concentrating hormone (MCH), and galanin.

2.2.1 Orexin/hypocretin
Hypothalamic orexin/hypocretin (OH) neurons heavily innervate REM sleep-suppressing brainstem regions, including the LC, DRN, and vlPAG. A deficit in this system results in narcolepsy, with pathological intrusion of REM sleep, called cataplexy. Thus, this system is crucial for the physiological regulation of REM sleep by stabilizing wakefulness.

Molecular features. OH is a neuropeptide, consisting of orexin A (hypocretin 1) and orexin B (hypocretin 2) derived from a common precursor peptide, prepro-orexin (de Lecea et al., 1998; Sakurai et al., 1998). OH can activate two G-protein-coupled receptors, OX1R and OX2R (Sakurai et al., 1998). The former has greater affinity for orexin A than orexin B whereas the latter has similar affinity for both types. OX1R is coupled to the Gq/11 to activate phospholipase C whereas OX2R is coupled to both Gq/11 and Gi.

Anatomy. OH neurons are exclusively located in the lateral hypothalamus (LH) and posterior hypothalamus (PH). They coexpress dynorphin, galanin, prolactin, neuronal activity-regulated pentraxin and glutamate (Chou et al., 2001; Risold et al., 1999; Abrahamson et al., 2001; Tsujino and Sakurai, 2009). Many OH neurons also express vesicular glutamate transporters, but not GAD67, suggesting that they are also glutamatergic (Rosin et al., 2003).

OH neurons receive inputs from the lateral parabrachial nucleus, VLPO, medial and lateral preoptic areas, BF, posterior/dorsomedial hypothalamus, VTA, and median raphe nuclei (Sakurai et al., 2005; Yoshida et al., 2006). OH neurons also receive inputs from Lhx6-positive GABAergic neurons in the zona incerta (ZI) (Liu et al., 2017).

OH neurons widely project to various regions (Peyron et al., 1998b): in addition to innervating areas within the hypothalamus, the densest projection can be found in the LC. OH neurons also project to the septal nuclei, BNST, the paraventricular and reuniens nuclei of the thalamus, ZI, subthalamic nucleus, PGA (including vlPAG), substantia nigra, DRN, parabrachial area, PPT/LDT, medullary reticular formation, inferior colliculus, and the nucleus of the solitary tract. The expression pattern of OXRs is generally consistent with the innervation pattern of OH neurons. The distribution of OX1R and OX2R is partially overlapped, implying distinct functional roles (Trivedi et al., 1998; Marcus et al., 2001; Lu et al., 2000b).

Activity. OH neurons are generally REM-off. They discharge during active wakefulness and decrease their firing during quiet wakefulness, but still respond to sensory stimulation. They are silent during sleep including both NREM and REM sleep (Hassani et al., 2009; Lee et al., 2005b; Mileykovskiy et al., 2005).

Function. Although OH neurons receive inputs from various wake-promoting neurons, their effects on OH neuronal activity are complex. For example, carbachol and histamine have excitatory effects on OH neurons (Brown et al., 2002; Sakurai et al., 2005) whereas serotonergic neurons have inhibitory effects (Muraki et al., 2004; Sakurai et al., 2005). Effects of noradrenergic neurons are mixed (Carter et al., 2012; Yamanaka et al., 2006; Hara et al., 2001). OH neurons are inhibited by a subset of GABAergic neurons (Lhx6+) in the ventral ZI to induce NREM sleep (Liu et al., 2017).

OH activates monoaminergic systems, including LC-NE, VTA-DA, DRN-5-HT, and histaminergic cells (Yamanaka et al., 2002; Brown et al., 2002; Hagan et al., 1999; Nakamura et al., 2000), consistent with the notion that OH plays a causal role in arousal (Adamantidis et al., 2007). However, the effects of OH on cholinergic neurons depend on the cholinergic nucleus. For instance, orexin A injected into the LDT increases the time spent in wakefulness and decreases the time spent in REM sleep (Xi et al., 2001). Orexin A induces excitation of cholinergic neurons in the LDT (Takahashi et al., 2002) and BF (Eggermann et al., 2001). On the other hand, orexin A can indirectly inhibit PPT cholinergic neurons by activating PPT GABAergic interneurons as well as GABAergic neurons in the substantia nigra pars reticulata (Takakusaki et al., 2005).

Effects of OH neuron activation on MCH neurons are generally inhibitory, but can also be excitatory (Apergis-Schoute et al., 2015; van den Pol et al., 2004; Hassani et al., 2009). The inhibitory effect of OH cells on MCH neurons is probably due to the recruitment of local GABAergic neurons via OH activation, but not glutamatergic or dynorphinergic effects (Apergis-Schoute et al., 2015).

In summary, findings are generally consistent with the notion that OH neurons play a role in the stabilization of wakefulness by interacting with other wake/sleep-promoting neurons. However, detailed synaptic and circuit mechanisms remain to be fully characterized. In addition, although the OH system plays a causal role in narcolepsy (Pintwala and Peever, 2017; Sakurai, 2007; Thannickal et al., 2000; Peyron et al., 2000; Lin et al., 1999; Chemelli et al., 1999; Tsujino and Sakurai, 2009), the cause of narcolepsy is still unclear.

2.2.2 Melanin-concentrating hormone
While OH neurons stabilize wakefulness, melanin-concentrating hormone (MCH) neurons have the opposite effect on the regulation of sleep-wake states by increasing REM and NREM sleep.

Molecular features. MCH was first discovered in fish (Kawauchi et al., 1983; Rance and Baker, 1979) and later in the mammalian brain (Vaughan et al., 1989; Nahon et al., 1989). MCH is produced from a preproprotein, called prepro-MCH, which also encodes neuropeptide-glutamic acid-isoleucine (NEI) and neuropeptide-glycine-glutamic acid (NGE). MCH is a 19-amino acid neuropeptide and binds to G-protein-coupled receptors, termed MCHR1 (or GPR24) and MCHR2. As MCHR1 is coupled with Gai/o and Gaq proteins, MCHR1 activation causes a strong inhibition of neurons (Hawes et al., 2000). MCHR2 gene shows species differences: in rodents (the rat, mouse, hamster, and guinea pig) and rabbits, MCHR2 is a pseudogene, thus non-functional whereas in carnivores (the dog and ferret) and primate (rhesus macaque and human), MCHR2 is functional and expressed in the brain (such as the claustrum) (Tan et al., 2002). MCHR2 is coupled to Gq proteins, which trigger intraceullular signaling. However, the function of MCHR2 remains unknown.

Anatomy. MCH neurons are primarily located in the LH and ZI. The distribution of MCH neurons shows sexually dimorphic patterns in rats. For example, MCH neurons can be found in the LDT of female but not male rats (Rondini et al., 2007). Some MCH neurons co-express GAD67 and others express vGluT1 (Jego et al., 2013; Harthoorn et al., 2005).

Anatomical inputs to MCH neurons has been characterized comprehensively (Gonzalez et al., 2016). Of numerous brain regions, the following areas provide strong innervation to MCH neurons: the tuberal nucleus and the periventricular, the lateral, ventromedial and dorsomedial hypothalamic nuclei within the hypothalamus; the nucleus accumbens, BNST, and BF within the cerebral nuclei; and the midbrain reticular nucleus, PAG and VTA within the midbrain.

MCH neurons project to areas throughout the brain. In particular, they heavily innervate the LH, medial septum, medial diagonal band, lateral part of the medial mammillary nucleus, and PPT (Bittencourt et al., 1992).

Activity. A Fos mapping study demonstrated that MCH neurons are strongly active during REM sleep (Verret et al., 2003). This was subsequently confirmed with electrophysiology, whereby MCH neurons were observed to fire exclusively during REM sleep in rats (Hassani et al., 2009). Thus, contrary to OH neurons, MCH neurons are REM-on.

Function. Consistent with these observations, intracerebroventricular injection of MCH increases both NREM and REM sleep in a dose dependent manner (Verret et al., 2003). Similarly, when administered into the DRN, vlPAG and LC, MCH also increases the time spend in REM sleep, with a moderate increase in NREM when injected into the DRN (Lagos et al., 2009; Fujimoto et al., 2017; Monti et al., 2015). Furthermore, MCHR1 antagonist administration decreases REM and NREM sleep (Ahnaou et al., 2008). However, an increase in REM sleep episodes was observed in MCHR1 knockout mice, suggesting that compensatory mechanisms are at play (Adamantidis et al., 2008).

A series of optogenetic studies have shed new light on the function of MCH neurons (Konadhode et al., 2013; Tsunematsu et al., 2014; Jego et al., 2013). Although detailed approaches and optical stimulation protocols varied across reports, all three independent studies confirmed that the activation of MCH neurons increases the time spent in REM sleep. A chemogenetic study also confirmed a similar effect (Vetrivelan et al., 2016). On the other hand, varied optogenetic experimental parameters have also resulted in inconsistent effects being observed. For example, Jego and colleagues only observed increases in REM sleep duration with 20 Hz optical stimulation at the onset of REM sleep, but not with 1 Hz stimulation. Another recent study showed that optogenetic activation of MCH neurons increases both REM and NREM sleep at night (active period), but only increases REM sleep during the light period (inactive period) (Blanco-Centurion et al., 2016).

Optogenetic silencing of MCH neurons did not affect sleep architecture (Tsunematsu et al., 2014; Jego et al., 2013). Although genetic ablation of MCH neurons also had no effect on the total duration of REM sleep, the chronic deletion of MCH neurons altered the diurnal rhythm (Tsunematsu et al., 2014; Vetrivelan et al., 2016). Overall, MCH neurons play a regulatory role in REM sleep and probably NREM sleep too. However, given the activity pattern of MCH neurons across the sleep-wake cycle (∼ 1 Hz, not 20 Hz, during REM sleep), it is still unclear how MCH neurons modulate REM sleep-regulating circuits.

2.2.3 Galanin
Galanin (GAL) is a neuropeptide expressed widely in the brain and peripheral tissue. While GAL has been implicated in the regulation of numerous physiological functions, GAL-positive (GAL+) neurons in the hypothalamus have been found to play a role in sleep regulation. However, the exact function of GAL + neurons in sleep remains uncertain. Here, we summarize the basic molecular and anatomical features of GAL and GAL receptors, and then focus on the function of hypothalamic GAL + neurons in REM sleep regulation.

Molecular features. GAL consists of 29 amino acids (Tatemoto et al., 1983) (30 amino acids in humans). GAL is produced from a 123-animo acid precursor, which is encoded by the GAL gene (Crawley, 1995). Three G-protein-coupled GAL receptors have been identified: GALR1 and GALR3 inhibit adenylyl cyclase whereas GALR2 stimulates phospholipase C and increases intracellular inositol triphosphate turnover (Lang et al., 2007; Branchek et al., 2000; Smith et al., 1998; Fathi et al., 1997; Habert-Ortoli et al., 1994).

Anatomy. GAL is widely expressed in the central nervous system, with strong expression in the hypothalamus, medulla, and spinal cord (Merchenthaler et al., 1993; Skofitsch and Jacobowitz, 1986; Melander et al., 1986). In the telencephalon, GAL + neurons can be found in the BNST, BF, and central nucleus of amygdala. In the pons, the DRN and LC also contain a large number of GAL + neurons. GALRs are also widely expressed, but show distinct expression patterns (Mennicken et al., 2002; Kolakowski et al., 1998; O’donnell et al., 1999; Parker et al., 1995), suggesting diverse functions of GAL.

Hypothalamic GAL + neurons are primarily GABAergic, but a recent study identified distinct sub-populations based on single-cell RNA sequencing analysis (Romanov et al., 2017). Although beyond the scope of this review, a subset of cholinergic neurons in the BF also expresses GAL, implicating a role in arousal and memory (Miller et al., 1998; Melander et al., 1985).

Activity and function. Although GAL administration does not promote REM sleep (Toppila et al., 1995), GAL + neurons play a role in REM sleep regulation. Neurons extending dorsally and medially from the VLPO (called the extended VLPO, eVLPO) have been implicated in REM sleep regulation (Lu et al., 2000a; Koyama and Hayaishi, 1994; Szymusiak et al., 1998; Lu et al., 2002). Saper and his colleagues demonstrated that REM sleep duration is correlated with the number of Fos + neurons in the eVLPO - a majority of which are GAL-positive (Lu et al., 2002). eVLPO neurons project to both REM-on/-off regions, including the vlPAG, LDT, DRN and LC (Lu et al., 2006b, 2002). GAL inhibits LC neurons (Seutin et al., 1989), suggesting REM sleep-promoting effects.

GAL + neurons in the dorsomedial hypothalamus (DMH) also regulate REM sleep (Chen et al., 2018). Interestingly, DMH GAL + neurons projecting to the preoptic area are REM-off and optogenetic activation of these neurons suppress REM sleep. The preoptic area also contains MCH neurons. On the other hand, DMH GAL + neurons projecting to the RPA in the vM are REM-on and optogenetic activation of these neurons promote REM sleep. Characterizing anatomical and functional interactions between two distinct GAL + neurons within the DMH would be interesting.

Thus, GAL + neurons can promote and inhibit REM sleep depending on implemented circuits. Further comprehensive anatomical and functional characterization will clarify the role of GAL + neurons in REM sleep. In addition, because GAL expression itself can be changed by responding to anatomical lesions or REM sleep deprivation (Toppila et al., 1995; Cortes et al., 1990), the dynamic regulatory mechanism of GAL expression is also an important issue.

3 Computational models of REM sleep
The wake-sleep cycle is regulated by complex interactions between at least three fundamental processes: a homeostatic process, a circadian process, and an ultradian process. Computational models of sleep-wake cycles typically incorporate at least one of these processes. The main purpose of these computational models can be (1) to replicate the dynamics of sleep-wake cycles with and without perturbations, such as sleep deprivation and pharmacological manipulations, (2) to replicate the dynamics of neural population activity in sleep/wake regulating circuits, and (3) to explain the relationship between specific neural systems and disease states, such as the relationship between OH neurons and narcolepsy. The level of implementation varies across models, from the more conceptual model to the more detailed neural network models with varied architectures and formalizations. In this section, we provide a brief overview of the computational models of the sleep-wake cycle, with an emphasis on REM sleep. We begin by introducing Borbely’s two-process model (Fig. 3A) to provide a broad context of this topic. We will then focus on computational models of REM sleep regulation which include two major categories of models - the reciprocal interaction (RI) model and the mutual inhibition (MI) model (also known as the flip-flop switch model) (Figs. 3B and C). Finally, we briefly summarize integrative models which contain various brain structures. Readers may also refer to other reviews (Weber, 2017; Borbely and Achermann, 1992; Booth and Diniz Behn, 2014).Fig. 3 Computational models of sleep-wake cycles and REM sleep.

(A) Two-process model (modified from Borbély 1982). Sleep is regulated by a homeostatic mechanism (Process S) and a circadian mechanism (Process C). Total sleep propensity is represented by the difference between the Processes S and C.

(B) An elementary component of a Reciprocal Interaction (RI) model.

(C) An elementary component of a Mutual Inhibition (MI) model. A homeostatic/circadian drive contribute to shifting states.

(D) An example of an integrative model (modified from Tamakawa et al., 2006). BS, brainstem; BF, basal forebrain; DR, dorsal raphe nucleus; LC, locus coeruleus; MnPN, median preoptic nucleus; PFH, perifornical hypothalamus; TMN, tuberomammillary nucleus; VLPO, ventrolateral preoptic area; 5 H T, serotonin; Ach, acetylcholine; GABA, gamma aminobutyric acid; HA, histamine; NA, noradrenaline; OH, orexin/hypocretin.

Fig. 3

3.1 Two-process model
Borbely’s two-process model offers a conceptual framework of sleep-wake cycles (Borbely, 1982). In this model, a homeostatic sleep-dependent process (Process S) and a circadian process (Process C) play a dominant role in sleep regulation (Fig. 3A). Process S reflects the global changes in cortical slow wave activity (SWA) as a biomarker. Process C can be explained by the activity of the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) (Welsh et al., 2010). Total sleep propensity is represented by the difference between the Processes S and C. After quantitative implementation of this concept (Daan et al., 1984), the two-process model was further extended with an external function to trigger REM sleep (Achermann and Borbely, 1990). Computational models over the last decade have implemented this model with detailed network architectures to reflect experimental observations. For example, Phillips and Robinson have implemented the two-process model in several neural network models which uses different neural population firing rate formalisms (Robinson et al., 2011; Phillips and Robinson, 2008, 2007). In the following sections, we focus on computational models of REM sleep regulation.

3.2 Reciprocal interaction model
The RI model consists of an excitatory REM-on population interacting with an inhibitory REM-off population (Fig. 3B). The first of its kind was produced by McCarley and Hobson with REM-on neurons in the pontine cholinergic field interacting with REM-off neurons in the LC (McCarley and Hobson, 1975). A predator-prey interaction model with Lotka-Volterra equations was utilized in this model, whereby the activity of REM-off neurons (predator) gradually decays due to self-inhibition, which results in increased activity of REM-on neurons (prey). Although this model mimicked the time course of neural firing of REM-on and REM-off neurons, it was too sensitive to perturbations and did not include the circadian rhythm. Subsequently, the original model was extended by introducing a limit cycle as well as circadian variation (McCarley and Massaquoi, 1986). This limit cycle reciprocal interaction model (LCRIM) was applicable to human sleep data as well as for a simulation of pharmacological experiments. An integrated model was further developed to generate qualitatively realistic sleep-wave cycles by linking the two-process model with the LCRIM (Massaquoi and McCarley, 1992).

Recent models incorporated the dynamics of the RI model into a more physiologically based model (Booth et al., 2017; Behn and Booth, 2012; Diniz Behn and Booth, 2010; Behn et al., 2007; Tamakawa et al., 2006), which we summarize in the section below. Although the original model was inspired by excitatory and inhibitory interactions between cholinergic and monoaminergic systems, experimental evidence (discussed above) over the last decade suggests that this reciprocal interaction may not be sufficient for REM sleep generation.

3.3 Mutual inhibition model
The MI model (or flip-flop switch model) consists of mutual inhibitory interactions between REM-on and REM-off neurons (Fig. 3C). The original model was conceptually proposed for wake-sleep regulation where sleep-promoting VLPO GABAergic neurons and wake-promoting monoaminergic neurons mutually inhibit each other. The wake stabilizing effects of OH neurons were also represented as a ‘finger’ of the flip-flop switch (Saper et al., 2001). Later, Lu and his colleagues extended this concept to REM-NREM regulation by experimentally demonstrating inhibitory REM-on and REM-off neurons within the brainstem (Lu et al., 2006b). Since then, several computational models incorporated this mutual inhibition into their network architecture (Grace et al., 2014; Dunmyre et al., 2014; Kumar et al., 2012; Rempe et al., 2010; Behn and Booth, 2012).

In this model, mutually inhibiting components provide a bistable feedback loop. Because a key feature of this circuit is self-reinforcing to stabilize a particular state, additional inputs to inhibitory components play a key role in shifting the balance of mutual inhibition, that is, state change. Such inputs can reflect circadian and/or homeostatic drives. However, the neural basis of such drives remains unknown.

Of recent models, Booth and her colleagues developed a simple, but elegant dynamical system model to implement this MI model with their neural population firing rate and neurotransmitter formalism (Dunmyre et al., 2014). By coupling two flip-flop switches together, the model could capture rat sleep behavior including recovery after REM sleep deprivation.

Although most models have been developed as a population firing rate model with varied formalisms, a network model with leaky integrate-and-fire model neurons was also developed in order to assess the effect of muscarinic receptor anatagonism on REM-on subcoeruleus activity (Grace et al., 2014). In this model, MI between REM-on and –off neurons within the vlPAG was implemented with a ramping input to REM-off neurons. A similar network model with the large number of model neurons needs to be developed to fully capture the dynamics of sleep-wake cycles, not just the transition from NREM to REM sleep.

3.4 RI model versus MI model
What is the similarity and difference between the RI and MI models? How do each of these network motifs respond to perturbations? Which motif plays a primary causal role for REM sleep transitions? Although answers to these questions remain unclear, these issues were addressed by Diniz Behn and her colleagues (Behn et al., 2013). By using minimal RI and MI models with varied implementations of homeostatic drive, they identified conditions for the generation of REM-NREM sleep cycles and investigated the robustness of REM-NREM sleep cycles by analyzing the response of model dynamics to manipulation of synaptic interactions and self-modulatory inputs.

The RI model results in stable limit cycle oscillations rather than a single fixed point, meaning that continuous state shifts are inherited in this system. On the other hand, the MI model stabilizes the brain state. In contrast to the RI model, extrinsic inputs or parameter change are required to change the state within the MI model. Thus, the homeostatic drive plays a crucial role in REM-NREM sleep cycles in the MI model. These results suggest that the neuronal populations associated with the causal REM sleep network may be identified by evaluating distinct responses in REM sleep dynamics to experimental modulation of specific network components. The combination of experimental approaches with these types of computational studies will be helpful to interpret the dynamics of REM-on and REM-off neural firing as well as the effect of perturbations (e.g., optogenetics) on REM-NREM sleep cycles.

3.5 Integrative models
While computational models for REM sleep can be conceptually categorized into two major categories, researchers have also developed integrative models that include various brain regions in accordance with experimental observations. For example, Tamakawa et al (2006) developed an ambitious integrative model consisting of 10 subcortical nuclei across the BF, hypothalamus and brainstem, which can be categorized into four functional units: sleep-active, wake-active, REM-active (REM-on), and wake-REM-active groups (Fig. 3D). Despite the large number of parameters, this ‘quartet’ network successfully reproduced the dynamics of neural firing in each component across sleep-wake cycles (Tamakawa et al., 2006). Subsequently, different neural network models have been developed with varied network architectures and mathematical formalisms (Grace et al., 2014; Kumar et al., 2012; Rempe et al., 2010; Behn and Booth, 2012; Diniz Behn and Booth, 2010; Behn et al., 2007; Booth and Diniz Behn, 2014). As new experimental discoveries are made, such integrative models should be also updated. To date, at least two approaches are missing in this field: first, there are few computational models that implement the effects of optogenetic stimulation on REM sleep regulation (Carter et al., 2012). Second, a large-scale realistic network model with spiking model neurons has not been developed to the best of our knowledge.

4 Conclusion and future directions
In summary, REM sleep-regulating circuits are widely distributed across the brainstem and hypothalamus, utilizing diverse neurotransmitters and neuropeptides. Thus, REM sleep-regulating circuits are a highly robust and complex system. While experimental findings are still fragmented and mostly qualitative, it is crucial to understand this complexity quantitatively by incorporating advanced technologies with computational modeling. In particular, computational models reflecting the latest experimental evidence are urgently required, together with quantifying anatomical/synaptic connections as well as characterizing the dynamics of neural ensembles in the hypothalamus and brainstem in a cell type-specific fashion.

To better understand REM sleep, at least five key questions remain to be addressed: the first issue is to determine the evolutionary origin of REM sleep. Given the complexity and redundancy of the regulatory circuit, it is not surprising that the primitive elements of REM sleep can be found in lower vertebrates (Shein-Idelson et al., 2016). Although adult mice have been a popular choice as an animal model, further comparative (Joiner, 2016) and developmental studies (Hayashi et al., 2015; Robertson et al., 2013) will help shed new light on the mechanism underlying REM sleep regulation. Advanced anatomical methods, lineage tracing, and genome engineering may play an important role to this end.

The second issue is to dissect the anatomical complexity of REM sleep-regulating circuits at various levels. For example, what neurotransmitters and neuropeptides are utilized? How many cell types are contributing to REM sleep regulation? How are they anatomically connected in a cell-type-specific manner? Advanced genetic and single-cell profiling technologies, as well as the latest anatomical methods should be applied to address these questions (Weber and Dan, 2016). In addition, in vitro slice experiments will add quantitative information about synaptic connections.

The third issue is to determine the neural basis of homeostatic control of REM sleep. Although REM sleep deprivation has long been used for REM sleep experiments, the neural mechanisms underlying the homeostatic control of REM sleep remains elusive. A closed-loop experiment with optogenetic manipulations to manipulate the duration of REM sleep may be a promising approach to address this issue without causing stress compared to conventional approaches. This closed-loop approach will also offer an opportunity to explore the functions of REM sleep.

The forth issue is to decipher the dynamics of neural ensembles for REM sleep regulation. Since the identification of REM-on and –off neurons in 1970s, it is still unclear how these functionally distinct cell populations interact with each other. Monitoring neural ensembles across hypothalamic/brainstem areas and incorporating these findings with computational approaches will provide promising insights into the neural dynamics of REM sleep. Although realistic computational models with spiking neurons are also worth developing, quantitative descriptions of the electrophysiology and anatomy are still scarce. Efforts similar to those for cortical circuits are unmet needs in this field.

The final and most fundamental issue is to understand the function of REM sleep. Why did REM sleep emerge only in mammals, birds and some reptiles? Why does the duration of REM sleep decrease as the brain matures? What are the differences in memory-related neural processes between REM and NREM sleep? And why do we dream? Although several influential hypotheses have been proposed during the 1960s to 80s (Crick and Mitchison, 1983; Hobson and McCarley, 1977; Davenne and Adrien, 1984; Roffwarg et al., 1966), they have not been fully tested experimentally. Accumulating evidence suggests the role of REM sleep in memory consolidation (Boyce et al., 2017; Stickgold and Walker, 2013; Poe, 2017; Sara, 2017; Rasch and Born, 2013; Siegel, 2001; Peever and Fuller, 2017). While controversy surrounding this hypothesis has persisted, a recent study used optogenetics in mice to demonstrate that theta rhythm during REM sleep plays a causal role in spatial and contextual memory consolidation (Boyce et al., 2016). Another recent imaging study showed that newly formed synapses of cortical layer 5 pyramidal cells can be selectively eliminated and maintained via dendritic calcium spike-dependent mechanisms during REM sleep (Li et al., 2017). Thus, with the advent of recent revolutionary technologies, it is now an exciting period to revisit early hypotheses for a better understanding of REM sleep.

Author contributions
CH, AP and SS wrote the manuscript.

Conflict of interest
The authors declare no conflict of interest.

Glossary
AChacetylcholine

BFbasal forebrain

BNSTbed nucleus of the stria terminalis

DAdopamine

DMHdorsomedial hypothalamus

DpMedeep mesencephalic reticular nucleus

DRNdorsal raphe nucleus

EEGelectroencephalogram

eVLPOextended area of the ventrolateral preoptic area

GABAγ-aminobutyric acid

GiAalpha gigantocellular nucleus

GiVventral gigantocellular nucleus

Gluglutamate

Glyglycine

LClocus coeruleus

LDTlaterodorsal tegmental nucleus

LPBlateral parabrachial nucleus

LPGilateral paragigantocellular nucleus

MCHmelanin-concentrating hormone

MPBmedial parabrachial nucleus

OHorexin/hypocretin

PAGperiaqueductal gray

PPTpedunculopontine tegmental nucleus

REMrapid eye movement

RMgraphe magnus

RPAnucleus raphe pallidus

SLDsublaterodorsal nucleus

vlPAGventrolateral periaqueductal gray

VLPOventrolateral preoptic area

vMventral medulla

vmMventromedial medulla

VTAventral tegmental area

ZIzona incerta

Acknowledgements
This work was supportedby BBSRC (BB/M00905X/1), Leverhulme Trust (RPG-2015-377) and Alzheimer’s Research UK (ARUK-PPG2017B-005) to SS.
==== Refs
References
Abrahamson E.E.  Leak R.K.  Moore R.Y.   The suprachiasmatic nucleus projects to posterior hypothalamic arousal systems Neuroreport 12 2001 435 440 11209963 
Achermann P.  Borbely A.A.   Simulation of human sleep: ultradian dynamics of electroencephalographic slow-wave activity J. Biol. Rhythms 5 1990 141 157 2133124 
Adamantidis A.R.  Zhang F.  Aravanis A.M.  Deisseroth K.  De Lecea L.   Neural substrates of awakening probed with optogenetic control of hypocretin neurons Nature 450 2007 420 424 17943086 
Adamantidis A.  Salvert D.  Goutagny R.  Lakaye B.  Gervasoni D.  Grisar T.  Luppi P.H.  Fort P.   Sleep architecture of the melanin-concentrating hormone receptor 1-knockout mice Eur. J. Neurosci. 27 2008 1793 1800 18380672 
Aghajanian G.K.  Vandermaelen C.P.   Alpha 2-adrenoceptor-mediated hyperpolarization of locus coeruleus neurons: intracellular studies in vivo Science 215 1982 1394 1396 6278591 
Ahnaou A.  Drinkenburg W.H.  Bouwknecht J.A.  Alcazar J.  Steckler T.  Dautzenberg F.M.   Blocking melanin-concentrating hormone MCH1 receptor affects rat sleep-wake architecture Eur. J. Pharmacol. 579 2008 177 188 18062961 
Allers K.A.  Sharp T.   Neurochemical and anatomical identification of fast- and slow-firing neurones in the rat dorsal raphe nucleus using juxtacellular labelling methods in vivo Neuroscience 122 2003 193 204 14596860 
Amatruda T.T.  Black D.A. 3rd  Mckenna T.M.  Mccarley R.W.  Hobson J.A.   Sleep cycle control and cholinergic mechanisms: differential effects of carbachol injections at pontine brain stem sites Brain Res. 98 1975 501 515 1182534 
Andrezik J.A.  Chan-Palay V.  Palay S.L.   The nucleus paragigantocellularis lateralis in the rat. Demonstration of afferents by the retrograde transport of horseradish peroxidase Anat. Embryol. (Berl.) 161 1981 373 390 7247035 
Apergis-Schoute J.  Iordanidou P.  Faure C.  Jego S.  Schone C.  Aitta-Aho T.  Adamantidis A.  Burdakov D.   Optogenetic evidence for inhibitory signaling from orexin to MCH neurons via local microcircuits J. Neurosci. 35 2015 5435 5441 25855162 
Aserinsky E.  Kleitman N.   Regularly occurring periods of eye motility, and concomitant phenomena, during sleep Science 118 1953 273 274 13089671 
Aston-Jones G.  Bloom F.E.   Activity of norepinephrine-containing locus coeruleus neurons in behaving rats anticipates fluctuations in the sleep-waking cycle J. Neurosci. 1 1981 876 886 7346592 
Aston-Jones G.  Cohen J.D.   An integrative theory of locus coeruleus-norepinephrine function: adaptive gain and optimal performance Annu. Rev. Neurosci. 28 2005 403 450 16022602 
Baghdoyan H.A.  Monaco A.P.  Rodrigo-Angulo M.L.  Assens F.  Mccarley R.W.  Hobson J.A.   Microinjection of neostigmine into the pontine reticular formation of cats enhances desynchronized sleep signs J. Pharmacol. Exp. Ther. 231 1984 173 180 6491973 
Beckstead R.M.  Domesick V.B.  Nauta W.J.   Efferent connections of the substantia nigra and ventral tegmental area in the rat Brain Res. 175 1979 191 217 314832 
Behbehani M.M.   Functional characteristics of the midbrain periaqueductal gray Prog. Neurobiol. 46 1995 575 605 8545545 
Behn C.G.D.  Booth V.   A fast-slow analysis of the dynamics of REM sleep SIAM J. Appl. Dyn. Syst. 11 2012 212 242 
Behn C.G.  Brown E.N.  Scammell T.E.  Kopell N.J.   Mathematical model of network dynamics governing mouse sleep-wake behavior J. Neurophysiol. 97 2007 3828 3840 17409167 
Behn C.G.D.  Ananthasubramaniam A.  Booth V.   Contrasting existence and robustness of REM/Non-REM cycling in physiologically based models of REM sleep regulatory networks SIAM J. Appl. Dyn. Syst. 12 2013 279 314 
Bittencourt J.C.  Presse F.  Arias C.  Peto C.  Vaughan J.  Nahon J.L.  Vale W.  Sawchenko P.E.   The melanin-concentrating hormone system of the rat brain: an immuno- and hybridization histochemical characterization J. Comp. Neurol. 319 1992 218 245 1522246 
Blanco-Centurion C.  Liu M.  Konadhode R.P.  Zhang X.  Pelluru D.  Van Den Pol A.N.  Shiromani P.J.   Optogenetic activation of melanin-concentrating hormone neurons increases non-rapid eye movement and rapid eye movement sleep during the night in rats Eur. J. Neurosci. 44 2016 2846 2857 27657541 
Boissard R.  Gervasoni D.  Schmidt M.H.  Barbagli B.  Fort P.  Luppi P.H.   The rat ponto-medullary network responsible for paradoxical sleep onset and maintenance: a combined microinjection and functional neuroanatomical study Eur. J. Neurosci. 16 2002 1959 1973 12453060 
Boissard R.  Fort P.  Gervasoni D.  Barbagli B.  Luppi P.H.   Localization of the GABAergic and non-GABAergic neurons projecting to the sublaterodorsal nucleus and potentially gating paradoxical sleep onset Eur. J. Neurosci. 18 2003 1627 1639 14511341 
Booth V.  Diniz Behn C.G.   Physiologically-based modeling of sleep-wake regulatory networks Math. Biosci. 250 2014 54 68 24530893 
Booth V.  Xique I.  Behn C.G.D.   One-dimensional map for the circadian modulation of sleep in a sleep-wake regulatory network model for human sleep SIAM J. Appl. Dyn. Syst. 16 2017 1089 1112 
Borbely A.A.   A two process model of sleep regulation Hum. Neurobiol. 1 1982 195 204 7185792 
Borbely A.A.  Achermann P.   Concepts and models of sleep regulation: an overview J. Sleep Res. 1 1992 63 79 10607028 
Boucetta S.  Cisse Y.  Mainville L.  Morales M.  Jones B.E.   Discharge profiles across the sleep-waking cycle of identified cholinergic, GABAergic, and glutamatergic neurons in the pontomesencephalic tegmentum of the rat J. Neurosci. 34 2014 4708 4727 24672016 
Bourgin P.  Escourrou P.  Gaultier C.  Adrien J.   Induction of rapid eye movement sleep by carbachol infusion into the pontine reticular formation in the rat Neuroreport 6 1995 532 536 7766858 
Boyce R.  Glasgow S.D.  Williams S.  Adamantidis A.   Causal evidence for the role of REM sleep theta rhythm in contextual memory consolidation Science 352 2016 812 816 27174984 
Boyce R.  Williams S.  Adamantidis A.   REM sleep and memory Curr. Opin. Neurobiol. 44 2017 167 177 28544929 
Branchek T.A.  Smith K.E.  Gerald C.  Walker M.W.   Galanin receptor subtypes Trends Pharmacol. Sci. 21 2000 109 117 10689365 
Brown R.E.  Sergeeva O.A.  Eriksson K.S.  Haas H.L.   Convergent excitation of dorsal raphe serotonin neurons by multiple arousal systems (orexin/hypocretin, histamine and noradrenaline) J. Neurosci. 22 2002 8850 8859 12388591 
Brown R.E.  Basheer R.  Mckenna J.T.  Strecker R.E.  Mccarley R.W.   Control of sleep and wakefulness Physiol. Rev. 92 2012 1087 1187 22811426 
Burgess C.R.  Oishi Y.  Mochizuki T.  Peever J.H.  Scammell T.E.   Amygdala lesions reduce cataplexy in orexin knock-out mice J. Neurosci. 33 2013 9734 9742 23739970 
Callaway C.W.  Lydic R.  Baghdoyan H.A.  Hobson J.A.   Pontogeniculooccipital waves: spontaneous visual system activity during rapid eye movement sleep Cell. Mol. Neurobiol. 7 1987 105 149 3308096 
Carter M.E.  Yizhar O.  Chikahisa S.  Nguyen H.  Adamantidis A.  Nishino S.  Deisseroth K.  De Lecea L.   Tuning arousal with optogenetic modulation of locus coeruleus neurons Nat. Neurosci. 13 2010 1526 1533 21037585 
Carter M.E.  Brill J.  Bonnavion P.  Huguenard J.R.  Huerta R.  De Lecea L.   Mechanism for Hypocretin-mediated sleep-to-wake transitions Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 109 2012 E2635 2644 22955882 
Chemelli R.M.  Willie J.T.  Sinton C.M.  Elmquist J.K.  Scammell T.  Lee C.  Richardson J.A.  Williams S.C.  Xiong Y.  Kisanuki Y.  Fitch T.E.  Nakazato M.  Hammer R.E.  Saper C.B.  Yanagisawa M.   Narcolepsy in orexin knockout mice: molecular genetics of sleep regulation Cell 98 1999 437 451 10481909 
Chen K.S.  Xu M.  Zhang Z.  Chang W.C.  Gaj T.  Schaffer D.V.  Dan Y.   A hypothalamic switch for REM and non-REM sleep Neuron 97 2018 1168 1176 e4 29478915 
Cho J.R.  Treweek J.B.  Robinson J.E.  Xiao C.  Bremner L.R.  Greenbaum A.  Gradinaru V.   Dorsal Raphe Dopamine Neurons Modulate Arousal and Promote Wakefulness by Salient Stimuli Neuron 94 2017 1205 1219 e8 28602690 
Chou T.C.  Lee C.E.  Lu J.  Elmquist J.K.  Hara J.  Willie J.T.  Beuckmann C.T.  Chemelli R.M.  Sakurai T.  Yanagisawa M.  Saper C.B.  Scammell T.E.   Orexin (hypocretin) neurons contain dynorphin J. Neurosci. 21 2001 RC168 
Clement O.  Sapin E.  Berod A.  Fort P.  Luppi P.H.   Evidence that neurons of the sublaterodorsal tegmental nucleus triggering paradoxical (REM) sleep are glutamatergic Sleep 34 2011 419 423 21461384 
Clement O.  Sapin E.  Libourel P.A.  Arthaud S.  Brischoux F.  Fort P.  Luppi P.H.   The lateral hypothalamic area controls paradoxical (REM) sleep by means of descending projections to brainstem GABAergic neurons J. Neurosci. 32 2012 16763 16774 23175830 
Clements J.R.  Grant S.   Glutamate-like immunoreactivity in neurons of the laterodorsal tegmental and pedunculopontine nuclei in the rat Neurosci. Lett. 120 1990 70 73 2293096 
Coleman C.G.  Lydic R.  Baghdoyan H.A.   M2 muscarinic receptors in pontine reticular formation of C57BL/6J mouse contribute to rapid eye movement sleep generation Neuroscience 126 2004 821 830 15207317 
Cornwall J.  Cooper J.D.  Phillipson O.T.   Afferent and efferent connections of the laterodorsal tegmental nucleus in the rat Brain Res. Bull. 25 1990 271 284 1699638 
Cortes R.  Villar M.J.  Verhofstad A.  Hokfelt T.   Effects of central nervous system lesions on the expression of galanin: a comparative in situ hybridization and immunohistochemical study Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U. S. A. 87 1990 7742 7746 1699231 
Cox J.  Pinto L.  Dan Y.   Calcium imaging of sleep-wake related neuronal activity in the dorsal pons Nat. Commun. 7 2016 10763 26911837 
Crawley J.N.   Biological actions of galanin Regul. Pept. 59 1995 1 16 12506409 
Crick F.  Mitchison G.   The function of dream sleep Nature 304 1983 111 114 6866101 
Daan S.  Beersma D.G.  Borbely A.A.   Timing of human sleep: recovery process gated by a circadian pacemaker Am. J. Physiol. 246 1984 R161 183 6696142 
Dahlstrom A.  Fuxe K.   Localization of monoamines in the lower brain stem Experientia 20 1964 398 399 5856530 
Datta S.   Cellular basis of pontine ponto-geniculo-occipital wave generation and modulation Cell. Mol. Neurobiol. 17 1997 341 365 9187490 
Datta S.  Siwek D.F.   Single cell activity patterns of pedunculopontine tegmentum neurons across the sleep-wake cycle in the freely moving rats J. Neurosci. Res. 70 2002 611 621 12404515 
Davenne D.  Adrien J.   Suppression of PGO waves in the kitten: anatomical effects on the lateral geniculate nucleus Neurosci. Lett. 45 1984 33 38 6728304 
De Lecea L.  Kilduff T.S.  Peyron C.  Gao X.  Foye P.E.  Danielson P.E.  Fukuhara C.  Battenberg E.L.  Gautvik V.T.  Bartlett F.S.  Frankel W.N. 2nd  Van Den Pol A.N.  Bloom F.E.  Gautvik K.M.  Sutcliffe J.G.   The hypocretins: hypothalamus-specific peptides with neuroexcitatory activity Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U. S. A. 95 1998 322 327 9419374 
Dement W.   The occurrence of low voltage, fast, electroencephalogram patterns during behavioral sleep in the cat Electroencephalogr. Clin. Neurophysiol. 10 1958 291 296 13548075 
Dement W.  Kleitman N.   Cyclic variations in EEG during sleep and their relation to eye movements, body motility, and dreaming Electroencephalogr. Clin. Neurophysiol. 9 1957 673 690 13480240 
Deurveilher S.  Hars B.  Hennevin E.   Pontine microinjection of carbachol does not reliably enhance paradoxical sleep in rats Sleep 20 1997 593 607 9351126 
Diniz Behn C.G.  Booth V.   Simulating microinjection experiments in a novel model of the rat sleep-wake regulatory network J. Neurophysiol. 103 2010 1937 1953 20107121 
Dougalis A.G.  Matthews Ga.C.  Bishop M.W.  Brischoux F.  Kobayashi K.  Ungless M.A.   Functional properties of dopamine neurons and co-expression of vasoactive intestinal polypeptide in the dorsal raphe nucleus and ventro-lateral periaqueductal grey Eur. J. Neurosci. 36 2012 3322 3332 22925150 
Dunmyre J.R.  Mashour G.A.  Booth V.   Coupled flip-flop model for REM sleep regulation in the rat PLoS ONE 9 2014 e94481 
Eggermann E.  Serafin M.  Bayer L.  Machard D.  Saint-Mleux B.  Jones B.E.  Muhlethaler M.   Orexins/hypocretins excite basal forebrain cholinergic neurones Neuroscience 108 2001 177 181 11734353 
El Mansari M.  Sakai K.  Jouvet M.   Unitary characteristics of presumptive cholinergic tegmental neurons during the sleep-waking cycle in freely moving cats Exp. Brain Res. 76 1989 519 529 2551709 
Ennis M.  Aston-Jones G.   GABA-mediated inhibition of locus coeruleus from the dorsomedial rostral medulla J. Neurosci. 9 1989 2973 2981 2769374 
Fathi Z.  Cunningham A.M.  Iben L.G.  Battaglino P.B.  Ward S.A.  Nichol K.A.  Pine K.A.  Wang J.  Goldstein M.E.  Iismaa T.P.  Zimanyi I.A.   Cloning, pharmacological characterization and distribution of a novel galanin receptor Brain Res. Mol. Brain Res. 51 1997 49 59 9427506 
Fischer A.G.  Jocham G.  Ullsperger M.   Dual serotonergic signals: a key to understanding paradoxical effects? Trends Cogn. Sci. (Regul. Ed.) 2014 
Ford B.  Holmes C.J.  Mainville L.  Jones B.E.   GABAergic neurons in the rat pontomesencephalic tegmentum: codistribution with cholinergic and other tegmental neurons projecting to the posterior lateral hypothalamus J. Comp. Neurol. 363 1995 177 196 8642069 
Fort P.  Bassetti C.L.  Luppi P.H.   Alternating vigilance states: new insights regarding neuronal networks and mechanisms Eur. J. Neurosci. 29 2009 1741 1753 19473229 
Fujimoto M.  Fukuda S.  Sakamoto H.  Takata J.  Sawamura S.   Neuropeptide glutamic acid-isoleucine (NEI)-induced paradoxical sleep in rats Peptides 87 2017 28 33 27845162 
George R.  Haslett W.L.  Jenden D.J.   A cholinergic mechanism in the brainstem reticular formation: induction of paradoxical sleep Int. J. Neuropharmacol. 3 1964 541 552 14344492 
Gervasoni D.  Peyron C.  Rampon C.  Barbagli B.  Chouvet G.  Urbain N.  Fort P.  Luppi P.H.   Role and origin of the GABAergic innervation of dorsal raphe serotonergic neurons J. Neurosci. 20 2000 4217 4225 10818157 
Gervasoni D.  Panconi E.  Henninot V.  Boissard R.  Barbagli B.  Fort P.  Luppi P.H.   Effect of chronic treatment with milnacipran on sleep architecture in rats compared with paroxetine and imipramine Pharmacol. Biochem. Behav. 73 2002 557 563 12151030 
Gnadt J.W.  Pegram G.V.   Cholinergic brainstem mechanisms of REM sleep in the rat Brain Res. 384 1986 29 41 3790997 
Gonzalez J.A.  Iordanidou P.  Strom M.  Adamantidis A.  Burdakov D.   Awake dynamics and brain-wide direct inputs of hypothalamic MCH and orexin networks Nat. Commun. 7 2016 11395 27102565 
Grace K.P.   How useful is optogenetic activation in determining neuronal function within dynamic circuits? Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U. S. A. 112 2015 E3755 26124088 
Grace K.P.  Horner R.L.   Evaluating the evidence surrounding pontine cholinergic involvement in REM sleep generation Front. Neurol. 6 2015 190 26388832 
Grace K.P.  Vanstone L.E.  Horner R.L.   Endogenous cholinergic input to the pontine REM sleep generator is not required for REM sleep to occur J. Neurosci. 34 2014 14198 14209 25339734 
Grzanna R.  Molliver M.E.   The locus coeruleus in the rat: an immunohistochemical delineation Neuroscience 5 1980 21 40 6988734 
Guyenet P.G.  Young B.S.   Projections of nucleus paragigantocellularis lateralis to locus coeruleus and other structures in rat Brain Res. 406 1987 171 184 3552117 
Habert-Ortoli E.  Amiranoff B.  Loquet I.  Laburthe M.  Mayaux J.F.   Molecular cloning of a functional human galanin receptor Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U. S. A. 91 1994 9780 9783 7524088 
Hagan J.J.  Leslie R.A.  Patel S.  Evans M.L.  Wattam T.A.  Holmes S.  Benham C.D.  Taylor S.G.  Routledge C.  Hemmati P.  Munton R.P.  Ashmeade T.E.  Shah A.S.  Hatcher J.P.  Hatcher P.D.  Jones D.N.  Smith M.I.  Piper D.C.  Hunter A.J.  Porter R.A.  Upton N.   Orexin A activates locus coeruleus cell firing and increases arousal in the rat Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U. S. A. 96 1999 10911 10916 10485925 
Hajos M.  Gartside S.E.  Villa A.E.  Sharp T.   Evidence for a repetitive (burst) firing pattern in a sub-population of 5-hydroxytryptamine neurons in the dorsal and median raphe nuclei of the rat Neuroscience 69 1995 189 197 8637617 
Hara J.  Beuckmann C.T.  Nambu T.  Willie J.T.  Chemelli R.M.  Sinton C.M.  Sugiyama F.  Yagami K.  Goto K.  Yanagisawa M.  Sakurai T.   Genetic ablation of orexin neurons in mice results in narcolepsy, hypophagia, and obesity Neuron 30 2001 345 354 11394998 
Harthoorn L.F.  Sane A.  Nethe M.  Van Heerikhuize J.J.   Multi-transcriptional profiling of melanin-concentrating hormone and orexin-containing neurons Cell. Mol. Neurobiol. 25 2005 1209 1223 16388333 
Hassani O.K.  Lee M.G.  Jones B.E.   Melanin-concentrating hormone neurons discharge in a reciprocal manner to orexin neurons across the sleep-wake cycle Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U. S. A. 106 2009 2418 2422 19188611 
Hawes B.E.  Kil E.  Green B.  O’neill K.  Fried S.  Graziano M.P.   The melanin-concentrating hormone receptor couples to multiple G proteins to activate diverse intracellular signaling pathways Endocrinology 141 2000 4524 4532 11108264 
Hayashi Y.  Kashiwagi M.  Yasuda K.  Ando R.  Kanuka M.  Sakai K.  Itohara S.   Cells of a common developmental origin regulate REM/non-REM sleep and wakefulness in mice Science 350 2015 957 961 26494173 
Hervieu G.J.  Cluderay J.E.  Harrison D.  Meakin J.  Maycox P.  Nasir S.  Leslie R.A.   The distribution of the mRNA and protein products of the melanin-concentrating hormone (MCH) receptor gene, slc-1, in the central nervous system of the rat Eur. J. Neurosci. 12 2000 1194 1216 10762350 
Heym J.  Steinfels G.F.  Jacobs B.L.   Activity of serotonin-containing neurons in the nucleus raphe pallidus of freely moving cats Brain Res. 251 1982 259 276 7139326 
Hobson J.A.  Mccarley R.W.   The brain as a dream state generator: an activation-synthesis hypothesis of the dream process Am. J. Psychiatry 134 1977 1335 1348 21570 
Hobson J.A.  Pace-Schott E.F.   The cognitive neuroscience of sleep: neuronal systems, consciousness and learning Nat. Rev. Neurosci. 3 2002 679 693 12209117 
Hobson J.A.  Mccarley R.W.  Wyzinski P.W.   Sleep cycle oscillation: reciprocal discharge by two brainstem neuronal groups Science 189 1975 55 58 1094539 
Hokfelt T.  Martensson R.  Bjorklund A.  Kleinau S.  Goldstein M.   Distribution of tyrosine-hydroxylase-immunoreactive neurons in the rat brain Bjorklund A.  Hokfelt T.   Handbook of Chemical Neuroanatomy 1984 Elsevier 
Holets V.R.  Hokfelt T.  Rokaeus A.  Terenius L.  Goldstein M.   Locus coeruleus neurons in the rat containing neuropeptide Y, tyrosine hydroxylase or galanin and their efferent projections to the spinal cord, cerebral cortex and hypothalamus Neuroscience 24 1988 893 906 2454419 
Holmes C.J.  Jones B.E.   Importance of cholinergic, GABAergic, serotonergic and other neurons in the medial medullary reticular formation for sleep-wake states studied by cytotoxic lesions in the cat Neuroscience 62 1994 1179 1200 7845593 
Holstege J.C.   Ultrastructural evidence for GABAergic brain stem projections to spinal motoneurons in the rat J. Neurosci. 11 1991 159 167 1702461 
Holstege J.C.  Bongers C.M.   A glycinergic projection from the ventromedial lower brainstem to spinal motoneurons. An ultrastructural double labeling study in rat Brain Res. 566 1991 308 315 1726063 
Hsieh K.C.  Gvilia I.  Kumar S.  Uschakov A.  Mcginty D.  Alam M.N.  Szymusiak R.   c-Fos expression in neurons projecting from the preoptic and lateral hypothalamic areas to the ventrolateral periaqueductal gray in relation to sleep states Neuroscience 188 2011 55 67 21601616 
Imai H.  Steindler D.A.  Kitai S.T.   The organization of divergent axonal projections from the midbrain raphe nuclei in the rat J. Comp. Neurol. 243 1986 363 380 2419370 
Jacobs B.L.  Azmitia E.C.   Structure and function of the brain serotonin system Physiol. Rev. 72 1992 165 229 1731370 
Jego S.  Glasgow S.D.  Herrera C.G.  Ekstrand M.  Reed S.J.  Boyce R.  Friedman J.  Burdakov D.  Adamantidis A.R.   Optogenetic identification of a rapid eye movement sleep modulatory circuit in the hypothalamus Nat. Neurosci. 16 2013 1637 1643 24056699 
Joiner W.J.   Unraveling the evolutionary determinants of sleep Curr. Biol. 26 2016 R1073 R1087 27780049 
Jones B.E.   Paradoxical sleep and its chemical/structural substrates in the brain Neuroscience 40 1991 637 656 2062436 
Jones B.E.   The role of noradrenergic locus coeruleus neurons and neighboring cholinergic neurons of the pontomesencephalic tegmentum in sleep-wake states Prog. Brain Res. 88 1991 533 543 1813933 
Jones B.E.  Yang T.Z.   The efferent projections from the reticular formation and the locus coeruleus studied by anterograde and retrograde axonal transport in the rat J. Comp. Neurol. 242 1985 56 92 2416786 
Jones B.E.  Bobillier P.  Jouvet M.   [Effect of destruction of neurons containing catecholamines of the mesencephalon on the wake-sleep cycle in cats] C. R. Seances Soc. Biol. Fil. 163 1969 176 180 4309270 
Jouvet M.   [Research on the neural structures and responsible mechanisms in different phases of physiological sleep] Arch. Ital. Biol. 100 1962 125 206 14452612 
Jouvet M.   The role of monoamines and acetylcholine-containing neurons in the regulation of the sleep-waking cycle Ergeb. Physiol. 64 1972 166 307 4403272 
Jouvet M.  Michel F.   Electromyographic correlations of sleep in the chronic decorticate & mesencephalic cat C. R. Seances Soc. Biol. Fil. 153 1959 422 425 13663472 
Jouvet M.  Michel F.  Courjon J.   [On a stage of rapid cerebral electrical activity in the course of physiological sleep] C. R. Seances Soc. Biol. Fil. 153 1959 1024 1028 14408003 
Kawauchi H.  Kawazoe I.  Tsubokawa M.  Kishida M.  Baker B.I.   Characterization of melanin-concentrating hormone in chum salmon pituitaries Nature 305 1983 321 323 6621686 
Kebschull J.M.  Garcia Da Silva P.  Reid A.P.  Peikon I.D.  Albeanu D.F.  Zador A.M.   High-Throughput Mapping of Single-Neuron Projections by Sequencing of Barcoded RNA Neuron 91 2016 975 987 27545715 
Kilduff T.S.  De Lecea L.   Mapping of the mRNAs for the hypocretin/orexin and melanin-concentrating hormone receptors: networks of overlapping peptide systems J. Comp. Neurol. 435 2001 1 5 11370007 
Kolakowski L.F.  O’neill G.P. Jr.  Howard A.D.  Broussard S.R.  Sullivan K.A.  Feighner S.D.  Sawzdargo M.  Nguyen T.  Kargman S.  Shiao L.L.  Hreniuk D.L.  Tan C.P.  Evans J.  Abramovitz M.  Chateauneuf A.  Coulombe N.  Ng G.  Johnson M.P.  Tharian A.  Khoshbouei H.  George S.R.  Smith R.G.  O’dowd B.F.   Molecular characterization and expression of cloned human galanin receptors GALR2 and GALR3 J. Neurochem. 71 1998 2239 2251 9832121 
Konadhode R.R.  Pelluru D.  Blanco-Centurion C.  Zayachkivsky A.  Liu M.  Uhde T.  Glen W.B.  Van Den Pol A.N. Jr.  Mulholland P.J.  Shiromani P.J.   Optogenetic stimulation of MCH neurons increases sleep J. Neurosci. 33 2013 10257 10263 23785141 
Koyama Y.  Hayaishi O.   Firing of neurons in the preoptic/anterior hypothalamic areas in rat: its possible involvement in slow wave sleep and paradoxical sleep Neurosci. Res. 19 1994 31 38 8008233 
Krenzer M.  Anaclet C.  Vetrivelan R.  Wang N.  Vong L.  Lowell B.B.  Fuller P.M.  Lu J.   Brainstem and spinal cord circuitry regulating REM sleep and muscle atonia PLoS ONE 6 2011 e24998 22043278 
Kroeger D.  Ferrari L.L.  Petit G.  Mahoney C.E.  Fuller P.M.  Arrigoni E.  Scammell T.E.   Cholinergic, Glutamatergic, and GABAergic neurons of the pedunculopontine tegmental nucleus have distinct effects on Sleep/Wake behavior in mice J. Neurosci. 37 2017 1352 1366 28039375 
Kumar R.  Bose A.  Mallick B.N.   A mathematical model towards understanding the mechanism of neuronal regulation of wake-NREMS-REMS states PLoS ONE 7 2012 e42059 
Lagos P.  Torterolo P.  Jantos H.  Chase M.H.  Monti J.M.   Effects on sleep of melanin-concentrating hormone (MCH) microinjections into the dorsal raphe nucleus Brain Res. 1265 2009 103 110 19230831 
Lang R.  Gundlach A.L.  Kofler B.   The galanin peptide family: receptor pharmacology, pleiotropic biological actions, and implications in health and disease Pharmacol. Ther. 115 2007 177 207 17604107 
Lee H.S.  Park S.H.  Song W.C.  Waterhouse B.D.   Retrograde study of hypocretin-1 (orexin-A) projections to subdivisions of the dorsal raphe nucleus in the rat Brain Res. 1059 2005 35 45 16153616 
Lee M.G.  Hassani O.K.  Jones B.E.   Discharge of identified orexin/hypocretin neurons across the sleep-waking cycle J. Neurosci. 25 2005 6716 6720 16014733 
Leger L.  Goutagny R.  Sapin E.  Salvert D.  Fort P.  Luppi P.H.   Noradrenergic neurons expressing Fos during waking and paradoxical sleep deprivation in the rat J. Chem. Neuroanat. 37 2009 149 157 19152834 
Li W.  Ma L.  Yang G.  Gan W.B.   REM sleep selectively prunes and maintains new synapses in development and learning Nat. Neurosci. 20 2017 427 437 28092659 
Lin L.  Faraco J.  Li R.  Kadotani H.  Rogers W.  Lin X.  Qiu X.  De Jong P.J.  Nishino S.  Mignot E.   The sleep disorder canine narcolepsy is caused by a mutation in the hypocretin (orexin) receptor 2 gene Cell 98 1999 365 376 10458611 
Liu K.  Kim J.  Kim D.W.  Zhang Y.S.  Bao H.  Denaxa M.  Lim S.A.  Kim E.  Liu C.  Wickersham I.R.  Pachinis V.  Hattar S.  Song J.  Brown S.P.  Blackshaw S.   Lhx6-positive GABA-releasing neurons of the zona incerta promote sleep Nature 548 2017 582 587 28847002 
Loewy A.D.  Wallach J.H.  Mckellar S.   Efferent connections of the ventral medulla oblongata in the rat Brain Res. 228 1981 63 80 7023615 
Low P.S.  Shank S.S.  Sejnowski T.J.  Margoliash D.   Mammalian-like features of sleep structure in zebra finches Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U. S. A. 105 2008 9081 9086 18579776 
Lowry C.A.  Evans A.K.  Gasser P.J.  Hale M.W.  Staub D.R.  Shekhar A.   Topographic organization and chemoarchitecture of the dorsal raphe nucleus and the median raphe nucleus Monti J.M.  Pandi-Perumal S.R.  Jacobs B.L.  Nutt D.J.   Serotonin and Sleep: Molecular, Functional and Clinical Aspects 2008 Birkhauser BioSciences Basel 
Lu J.  Greco M.A.  Shiromani P.  Saper C.B.   Effect of lesions of the ventrolateral preoptic nucleus on NREM and REM sleep J. Neurosci. 20 2000 3830 3842 10804223 
Lu X.Y.  Bagnol D.  Burke S.  Akil H.  Watson S.J.   Differential distribution and regulation of OX1 and OX2 orexin/hypocretin receptor messenger RNA in the brain upon fasting Horm. Behav. 37 2000 335 344 10860677 
Lu J.  Bjorkum A.A.  Xu M.  Gaus S.E.  Shiromani P.J.  Saper C.B.   Selective activation of the extended ventrolateral preoptic nucleus during rapid eye movement sleep J. Neurosci. 22 2002 4568 4576 12040064 
Lu J.  Jhou T.C.  Saper C.B.   Identification of wake-active dopaminergic neurons in the ventral periaqueductal gray matter J. Neurosci. 26 2006 193 202 16399687 
Lu J.  Sherman D.  Devor M.  Saper C.B.   A putative flip-flop switch for control of REM sleep Nature 441 2006 589 594 16688184 
Luebke J.I.  Greene R.W.  Semba K.  Kamondi A.  Mccarley R.W.  Reiner P.B.   Serotonin hyperpolarizes cholinergic low-threshold burst neurons in the rat laterodorsal tegmental nucleus in vitro Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U. S. A. 89 1992 743 747 1731349 
Luppi P.H.  Aston-Jones G.  Akaoka H.  Chouvet G.  Jouvet M.   Afferent projections to the rat locus coeruleus demonstrated by retrograde and anterograde tracing with cholera-toxin B subunit and Phaseolus vulgaris leucoagglutinin Neuroscience 65 1995 119 160 7753394 
Luppi P.H.  Gervasoni D.  Verret L.  Goutagny R.  Peyron C.  Salvert D.  Leger L.  Fort P.   Paradoxical (REM) sleep genesis: the switch from an aminergic-cholinergic to a GABAergic-glutamatergic hypothesis J. Physiol. Paris 100 2006 271 283 17689057 
Luppi P.H.  Gervasoni D.  Verret L.  Goutagny R.  Peyron C.  Salvert D.  Leger L.  Fort P.   Gamma-aminobutyric acid and the regulation of paradoxical, or rapid eye movement sleep Monti J.M.  Pandi-Perumal S.R.  Sinto C.   Neurochemistry of Sleep and Wakefulness 2008 Cambridge University Press 
Luppi P.H.  Clement O.  Sapin E.  Peyron C.  Gervasoni D.  Leger L.  Fort P.   Brainstem mechanisms of paradoxical (REM) sleep generation Pflugers Arch. 463 2012 43 52 22083642 
Luppi P.H.  Clement O.  Fort P.   Paradoxical (REM) sleep genesis by the brainstem is under hypothalamic control Curr. Opin. Neurobiol. 23 2013 786 792 23490549 
Luppi P.H.  Clement O.  Valencia Garcia S.  Brischoux F.  Fort P.   New aspects in the pathophysiology of rapid eye movement sleep behavior disorder: the potential role of glutamate, gamma-aminobutyric acid, and glycine Sleep Med. 14 2013 714 718 23790501 
Luppi P.H.  Peyron C.  Fort P.   Not a single but multiple populations of GABAergic neurons control sleep Sleep Med. Rev. 32 2017 85 94 27083772 
Maloney K.J.  Mainville L.  Jones B.E.   Differential c-Fos expression in cholinergic, monoaminergic, and GABAergic cell groups of the pontomesencephalic tegmentum after paradoxical sleep deprivation and recovery J. Neurosci. 19 1999 3057 3072 10191323 
Maloney K.J.  Mainville L.  Jones B.E.   c-Fos expression in GABAergic, serotonergic, and other neurons of the pontomedullary reticular formation and raphe after paradoxical sleep deprivation and recovery J. Neurosci. 20 2000 4669 4679 10844036 
Marcus J.N.  Aschkenasi C.J.  Lee C.E.  Chemelli R.M.  Saper C.B.  Yanagisawa M.  Elmquist J.K.   Differential expression of orexin receptors 1 and 2 in the rat brain J. Comp. Neurol. 435 2001 6 25 11370008 
Martinez-Gonzalez C.  Bolam J.P.  Mena-Segovia J.   Topographical organization of the pedunculopontine nucleus Front. Neuroanat. 5 2011 22 21503154 
Martinez-Gonzalez C.  Wang H.L.  Micklem B.R.  Bolam J.P.  Mena-Segovia J.   Subpopulations of cholinergic, GABAergic and glutamatergic neurons in the pedunculopontine nucleus contain calcium-binding proteins and are heterogeneously distributed Eur. J. Neurosci. 35 2012 723 734 22356461 
Massaquoi S.G.  Mccarley R.W.   Extension of the Limit Cycle Reciprocal Interaction Model of REM cycle control. An integrated sleep control model J. Sleep Res. 1 1992 138 143 10607042 
Mccarley R.W.   Neurobiology of REM and NREM sleep Sleep Med. 8 2007 302 330 17468046 
Mccarley R.W.  Hobson J.A.   Single neuron activity in cat gigantocellular tegmental field: selectivity of discharge in desynchronized sleep Science 174 1971 1250 1252 5133450 
Mccarley R.W.  Hobson J.A.   Neuronal excitability modulation over the sleep cycle: a structural and mathematical model Science 189 1975 58 60 1135627 
Mccarley R.W.  Massaquoi S.G.   A limit cycle mathematical model of the REM sleep oscillator system Am. J. Physiol. 251 1986 R1011 1029 3789188 
Mcginty D.J.  Harper R.M.   Dorsal raphe neurons: depression of firing during sleep in cats Brain Res. 101 1976 569 575 1244990 
Melander T.  Staines W.A.  Hokfelt T.  Rokaeus A.  Eckenstein F.  Salvaterra P.M.  Wainer B.H.   Galanin-like immunoreactivity in cholinergic neurons of the septum-basal forebrain complex projecting to the hippocampus of the rat Brain Res. 360 1985 130 138 2416401 
Melander T.  Hokfelt T.  Rokaeus A.   Distribution of galaninlike immunoreactivity in the rat central nervous system J. Comp. Neurol. 248 1986 475 517 2424949 
Mena-Segovia J.  Bolam J.P.   Rethinking the pedunculopontine nucleus: from cellular organization to function Neuron 94 2017 7 18 28384477 
Mena-Segovia J.  Sims H.M.  Magill P.J.  Bolam J.P.   Cholinergic brainstem neurons modulate cortical gamma activity during slow oscillations J. Physiol. (Paris) 586 2008 2947 2960 
Mennicken F.  Hoffert C.  Pelletier M.  Ahmad S.  O’donnell D.   Restricted distribution of galanin receptor 3 (GalR3) mRNA in the adult rat central nervous system J. Chem. Neuroanat. 24 2002 257 268 12406501 
Merchenthaler I.  Lopez F.J.  Negro-Vilar A.   Anatomy and physiology of central galanin-containing pathways Prog. Neurobiol. 40 1993 711 769 7683433 
Mileykovskiy B.Y.  Kiyashchenko L.I.  Siegel J.M.   Behavioral correlates of activity in identified hypocretin/orexin neurons Neuron 46 2005 787 798 15924864 
Miller M.A.  Kolb P.E.  Planas B.  Raskind M.A.   Few cholinergic neurons in the rat basal forebrain coexpress galanin messenger RNA J. Comp. Neurol. 391 1998 248 258 9518272 
Monnier M.   Comparative electrophysiology of sleep in some vertebrates Experientia 36 1980 16 19 6766872 
Monti J.M.   The role of dorsal raphe nucleus serotonergic and non-serotonergic neurons, and of their receptors, in regulating waking and rapid eye movement (REM) sleep Sleep Med. Rev. 14 2010 319 327 20153670 
Monti J.M.   The structure of the dorsal raphe nucleus and its relevance to the regulation of sleep and wakefulness Sleep Med. Rev. 14 2010 307 317 20153669 
Monti J.M.  Jantos H.   Effects of the 5-HT1A receptor ligands flesinoxan and WAY 100635 given systemically or microinjected into the laterodorsal tegmental nucleus on REM sleep in the Behav. Brain Res. 151 2004 159 166 15084431 
Monti J.M.  Lagos P.  Jantos H.  Torterolo P.   Increased REM sleep after intra-locus coeruleus nucleus microinjection of melanin-concentrating hormone (MCH) in the rat Prog. Neuropsychopharmacol. Biol. Psychiatry 56 2015 185 188 25257545 
Moruzzi G.   Active processes in the brain stem during sleep Harvey Lect. 58 1963 233 297 14272578 
Muraki Y.  Yamanaka A.  Tsujino N.  Kilduff T.S.  Goto K.  Sakurai T.   Serotonergic regulation of the orexin/hypocretin neurons through the 5-HT1A receptor J. Neurosci. 24 2004 7159 7166 15306649 
Nahon J.L.  Presse F.  Bittencourt J.C.  Sawchenko P.E.  Vale W.   The rat melanin-concentrating hormone messenger ribonucleic acid encodes multiple putative neuropeptides coexpressed in the dorsolateral hypothalamus Endocrinology 125 1989 2056 2065 2477226 
Nakamura T.  Uramura K.  Nambu T.  Yada T.  Goto K.  Yanagisawa M.  Sakurai T.   Orexin-induced hyperlocomotion and stereotypy are mediated by the dopaminergic system Brain Res. 873 2000 181 187 10915829 
Nitz D.  Siegel J.   GABA release in the dorsal raphe nucleus: role in the control of REM sleep Am. J. Physiol. 273 1997 R451 455 9249585 
O’donnell D.  Ahmad S.  Wahlestedt C.  Walker P.   Expression of the novel galanin receptor subtype GALR2 in the adult rat CNS: distinct distribution from GALR1 J. Comp. Neurol. 409 1999 469 481 10379831 
Onoe H.  Sakai K.   Kainate receptors: a novel mechanism in paradoxical (REM) sleep generation Neuroreport 6 1995 353 356 7756627 
Pace-Schott E.F.  Hobson J.A.   The neurobiology of sleep: genetics, cellular physiology and subcortical networks Nat. Rev. Neurosci. 3 2002 591 605 12154361 
Panula P.  Happola O.  Airaksinen M.S.  Auvinen S.  Virkamaki A.   Carbodiimide as a tissue fixative in histamine immunohistochemistry and its application in developmental neurobiology J. Histochem. Cytochem. 36 1988 259 269 3343510 
Parker E.M.  Izzarelli D.G.  Nowak H.P.  Mahle C.D.  Iben L.G.  Wang J.  Goldstein M.E.   Cloning and characterization of the rat GALR1 galanin receptor from Rin14B insulinoma cells Brain Res. Mol. Brain Res. 34 1995 179 189 8750821 
Peever J.  Fuller P.M.   The biology of REM sleep Curr. Biol. 27 2017 R1237 R1248 29161567 
Petitjean F.  Sakai K.  Blondaux C.  Jouvet M.   [Hypersomnia by isthmic lesion in cat. II. Neurophysiological and pharmacological study] Brain Res. 88 1975 439 453 166726 
Petrovic J.  Ciric J.  Lazic K.  Kalauzi A.  Saponjic J.   Lesion of the pedunculopontine tegmental nucleus in rat augments cortical activation and disturbs sleep/wake state transitions structure Exp. Neurol. 247 2013 562 571 23481548 
Peyron C.  Petit J.M.  Rampon C.  Jouvet M.  Luppi P.H.   Forebrain afferents to the rat dorsal raphe nucleus demonstrated by retrograde and anterograde tracing methods Neuroscience 82 1998 443 468 9466453 
Peyron C.  Tighe D.K.  Van Den Pol A.N.  De Lecea L.  Heller H.C.  Sutcliffe J.G.  Kilduff T.S.   Neurons containing hypocretin (orexin) project to multiple neuronal systems J. Neurosci. 18 1998 9996 10015 9822755 
Peyron C.  Faraco J.  Rogers W.  Ripley B.  Overeem S.  Charnay Y.  Nevsimalova S.  Aldrich M.  Reynolds D.  Albin R.  Li R.  Hungs M.  Pedrazzoli M.  Padigaru M.  Kucherlapati M.  Fan J.  Maki R.  Lammers G.J.  Bouras C.  Kucherlapati R.  Nishino S.  Mignot E.   A mutation in a case of early onset narcolepsy and a generalized absence of hypocretin peptides in human narcoleptic brains Nat. Med. 6 2000 991 997 10973318 
Phillips A.J.  Robinson P.A.   A quantitative model of sleep-wake dynamics based on the physiology of the brainstem ascending arousal system J. Biol. Rhythms 22 2007 167 179 17440218 
Phillips A.J.  Robinson P.A.   Sleep deprivation in a quantitative physiologically based model of the ascending arousal system J. Theor. Biol. 255 2008 413 423 18805427 
Pintwala S.  Peever J.   Circuit mechanisms of sleepiness and cataplexy in narcolepsy Curr. Opin. Neurobiol. 44 2017 50 58 28343142 
Poe G.R.   Sleep is for forgetting J. Neurosci. 37 2017 464 473 28100731 
Pollock M.S.  Mistlberger R.E.   Microinjection of neostigmine into the pontine reticular formation of the mouse: further evaluation of a proposed REM sleep enhancement technique Brain Res. 1031 2005 253 267 15649451 
Portas C.M.  Thakkar M.  Rainnie D.  Mccarley R.W.   Microdialysis perfusion of 8-hydroxy-2-(di-n-propylamino)tetralin (8-OH-DPAT) in the dorsal raphe nucleus decreases serotonin release and increases rapid eye movement sleep in the freely moving cat J. Neurosci. 16 1996 2820 2828 8786456 
Rampon C.  Luppi P.H.  Fort P.  Peyron C.  Jouvet M.   Distribution of glycine-immunoreactive cell bodies and fibers in the rat brain Neuroscience 75 1996 737 755 8951870 
Rance T.  Baker B.I.   The teleost melanin-concentrating hormone -- a pituitary hormone of hypothalamic origin Gen. Comp. Endocrinol. 37 1979 64 73 437498 
Rasch B.  Born J.   About sleep’s role in memory Physiol. Rev. 93 2013 681 766 23589831 
Rempe M.J.  Best J.  Terman D.   A mathematical model of the sleep/wake cycle J. Math. Biol. 60 2010 615 644 19557415 
Risold P.Y.  Griffond B.  Kilduff T.S.  Sutcliffe J.G.  Fellmann D.   Preprohypocretin (orexin) and prolactin-like immunoreactivity are coexpressed by neurons of the rat lateral hypothalamic area Neurosci. Lett. 259 1999 153 156 10025581 
Robertson S.D.  Plummer N.W.  De Marchena J.  Jensen P.   Developmental origins of central norepinephrine neuron diversity Nat. Neurosci. 16 2013 1016 1023 23852112 
Robinson P.A.  Phillips A.J.  Fulcher B.D.  Puckeridge M.  Roberts J.A.   Quantitative modelling of sleep dynamics Philos. Trans. A Math. Phys. Eng. Sci. 369 2011 3840 3854 21893531 
Roffwarg H.P.  Muzio J.N.  Dement W.C.   Ontogenetic development of the human sleep-dream cycle Science 152 1966 604 619 17779492 
Romanov R.A.  Zeisel A.  Bakker J.  Girach F.  Hellysaz A.  Tomer R.  Alpar A.  Mulder J.  Clotman F.  Keimpema E.  Hsueh B.  Crow A.K.  Martens H.  Schwindling C.  Calvigioni D.  Bains J.S.  Mate Z.  Szabo G.  Yanagawa Y.  Zhang M.D.  Rendeiro A.  Farlik M.  Uhlen M.  Wulff P.  Bock C.  Broberger C.  Deisseroth K.  Hokfelt T.  Linnarsson S.  Horvath T.L.  Harkany T.   Molecular interrogation of hypothalamic organization reveals distinct dopamine neuronal subtypes Nat. Neurosci. 20 2017 176 188 27991900 
Rondini T.A.  Rodrigues Bde C.  De Oliveira A.P.  Bittencourt J.C.  Elias C.F.   Melanin-concentrating hormone is expressed in the laterodorsal tegmental nucleus only in female rats Brain Res. Bull. 74 2007 21 28 17683785 
Rosin D.L.  Weston M.C.  Sevigny C.P.  Stornetta R.L.  Guyenet P.G.   Hypothalamic orexin (hypocretin) neurons express vesicular glutamate transporters VGLUT1 or VGLUT2 J. Comp. Neurol. 465 2003 593 603 12975818 
Saavedra J.M.  Grobecker H.  Zivin J.   Catecholamines in the raphe nuclei of the rat Brain Res. 114 1976 337 345 9180 
Sakai K.   Neurons Responsible for Paradoxical Sleep. Sleep: Neurotransmitters and Neuromodulators 1985 Raven Press 
Sakai K.   Sleep-waking discharge profiles of dorsal raphe nucleus neurons in mice Neuroscience 197 2011 200 224 21958868 
Sakai K.   Discharge properties of presumed cholinergic and noncholinergic laterodorsal tegmental neurons related to cortical activation in non-anesthetized mice Neuroscience 224 2012 172 190 22917614 
Sakai K.  Crochet S.   Role of dorsal raphe neurons in paradoxical sleep generation in the cat: no evidence for a serotonergic mechanism Eur. J. Neurosci. 13 2001 103 112 11135008 
Sakai K.  Koyama Y.   Are there cholinergic and non-cholinergic paradoxical sleep-on neurones in the pons? Neuroreport 7 1996 2449 2453 8981401 
Sakai K.  Salvert D.  Touret M.  Jouvet M.   Afferent connections of the nucleus raphe dorsalis in the cat as visualized by the horseradish peroxidase technique Brain Res. 137 1977 11 35 922504 
Sakai K.  Sastre J.P.  Salvert D.  Touret M.  Tohyama M.  Jouvet M.   Tegmentoreticular projections with special reference to the muscular atonia during paradoxical sleep in the cat: an HRP study Brain Res. 176 1979 233 254 227527 
Sakai K.  Crochet S.  Onoe H.   Pontine structures and mechanisms involved in the generation of paradoxical (REM) sleep Arch. Ital. Biol. 139 2001 93 107 11256190 
Sakurai T.   The neural circuit of orexin (hypocretin): maintaining sleep and wakefulness Nat. Rev. Neurosci. 8 2007 171 181 17299454 
Sakurai T.  Amemiya A.  Ishii M.  Matsuzaki I.  Chemelli R.M.  Tanaka H.  Williams S.C.  Richardson J.A.  Kozlowski G.P.  Wilson S.  Arch J.R.  Buckingham R.E.  Haynes A.C.  Carr S.A.  Annan R.S.  Mcnulty D.E.  Liu W.S.  Terrett J.A.  Elshourbagy N.A.  Bergsma D.J.  Yanagisawa M.   Orexins and orexin receptors: a family of hypothalamic neuropeptides and G protein-coupled receptors that regulate feeding behavior Cell 92 1998 573 585 9491897 
Sakurai T.  Nagata R.  Yamanaka A.  Kawamura H.  Tsujino N.  Muraki Y.  Kageyama H.  Kunita S.  Takahashi S.  Goto K.  Koyama Y.  Shioda S.  Yanagisawa M.   Input of orexin/hypocretin neurons revealed by a genetically encoded tracer in mice Neuron 46 2005 297 308 15848807 
Saper C.B.  Loewy A.D.   Projections of the pedunculopontine tegmental nucleus in the rat: evidence for additional extrapyramidal circuitry Brain Res. 252 1982 367 372 7150958 
Saper C.B.  Chou T.C.  Scammell T.E.   The sleep switch: hypothalamic control of sleep and wakefulness Trends Neurosci. 24 2001 726 731 11718878 
Saper C.B.  Fuller P.M.  Pedersen N.P.  Lu J.  Scammell T.E.   Sleep state switching Neuron 68 2010 1023 1042 21172606 
Sapin E.  Lapray D.  Berod A.  Goutagny R.  Leger L.  Ravassard P.  Clement O.  Hanriot L.  Fort P.  Luppi P.H.   Localization of the brainstem GABAergic neurons controlling paradoxical (REM) sleep PLoS ONE 4 2009 e4272 
Sara S.J.   Sleep to remember J. Neurosci. 37 2017 457 463 28100730 
Sastre J.P.  Sakai K.  Jouvet M.   Are the gigantocellular tegmental field neurons responsible for paradoxical sleep? Brain Res. 229 1981 147 161 7306802 
Sastre J.P.  Buda C.  Kitahama K.  Jouvet M.   Importance of the ventrolateral region of the periaqueductal gray and adjacent tegmentum in the control of paradoxical sleep as studied by muscimol microinjections in the cat Neuroscience 74 1996 415 426 8865193 
Scammell T.E.  Arrigoni E.  Lipton J.O.   Neural circuitry of wakefulness and sleep Neuron 93 2017 747 765 28231463 
Schwarz L.A.  Luo L.   Organization of the locus coeruleus-norepinephrine system Curr. Biol. 25 2015 R1051 R1056 26528750 
Schwarz L.A.  Miyamichi K.  Gao X.J.  Beier K.T.  Weissbourd B.  Deloach K.E.  Ren J.  Ibanes S.  Malenka R.C.  Kremer E.J.  Luo L.   Viral-genetic tracing of the input-output organization of a central noradrenaline circuit Nature 524 2015 88 92 26131933 
Semba K.  Fibiger H.C.   Afferent connections of the laterodorsal and the pedunculopontine tegmental nuclei in the rat: a retro- and antero-grade transport and immunohistochemical study J. Comp. Neurol. 323 1992 387 410 1281170 
Semba K.  Reiner P.B.  Fibiger H.C.   Single cholinergic mesopontine tegmental neurons project to both the pontine reticular formation and the thalamus in the rat Neuroscience 38 1990 643 654 2176719 
Seutin V.  Verbanck P.  Massotte L.  Dresse A.   Galanin decreases the activity of locus coeruleus neurons in vitro Eur. J. Pharmacol. 164 1989 373 376 2474450 
Shein-Idelson M.  Ondracek J.M.  Liaw H.P.  Reiter S.  Laurent G.   Slow waves, sharp waves, ripples, and REM in sleeping dragons Science 352 2016 590 595 27126045 
Shiromani P.J.  Fishbein W.   Continuous pontine cholinergic microinfusion via mini-pump induces sustained alterations in rapid eye movement (REM) sleep Pharmacol. Biochem. Behav. 25 1986 1253 1261 3809228 
Shouse M.N.  Siegel J.M.   Pontine regulation of REM sleep components in cats: integrity of the pedunculopontine tegmentum (PPT) is important for phasic events but unnecessary for atonia during REM sleep Brain Res. 571 1992 50 63 1611494 
Siegel J.M.   Phylogeny and the function of REM sleep Behav. Brain Res. 69 1995 29 34 7546315 
Siegel J.M.   The REM sleep-memory consolidation hypothesis Science 294 2001 1058 1063 11691984 
Siegel J.M.  Wheeler R.L.  Mcginty D.J.   Activity of medullary reticular formation neurons in the unrestrained cat during waking and sleep Brain Res. 179 1979 49 60 228803 
Sirieix C.  Gervasoni D.  Luppi P.H.  Leger L.   Role of the lateral paragigantocellular nucleus in the network of paradoxical (REM) sleep: an electrophysiological and anatomical study in the rat PLoS ONE 7 2012 e28724 
Skofitsch G.  Jacobowitz D.M.   Quantitative distribution of galanin-like immunoreactivity in the rat central nervous system Peptides 7 1986 609 613 2429289 
Smith K.E.  Walker M.W.  Artymyshyn R.  Bard J.  Borowsky B.  Tamm J.A.  Yao W.J.  Vaysse P.J.  Branchek T.A.  Gerald C.  Jones K.A.   Cloned human and rat galanin GALR3 receptors. Pharmacology and activation of G-protein inwardly rectifying K+ channels J. Biol. Chem. 273 1998 23321 23326 9722565 
Steiger A.  Holsboer F.   Neuropeptides and human sleep Sleep 20 1997 1038 1052 9456470 
Steininger T.L.  Wainer B.H.  Blakely R.D.  Rye D.B.   Serotonergic dorsal raphe nucleus projections to the cholinergic and noncholinergic neurons of the pedunculopontine tegmental region: a light and electron microscopic anterograde tracing and immunohistochemical study J. Comp. Neurol. 382 1997 302 322 9183696 
Steriade M.  Datta S.  Pare D.  Oakson G.  Curro Dossi R.C.   Neuronal activities in brain-stem cholinergic nuclei related to tonic activation processes in thalamocortical systems J. Neurosci. 10 1990 2541 2559 2388079 
Stickgold R.  Walker M.P.   Sleep-dependent memory triage: evolving generalization through selective processing Nat. Neurosci. 16 2013 139 145 23354387 
Stickgold R.  Hobson J.A.  Fosse R.  Fosse M.   Sleep, learning, and dreams: off-line memory reprocessing Science 294 2001 1052 1057 11691983 
Swanson L.W.   The locus coeruleus: a cytoarchitectonic, Golgi and immunohistochemical study in the albino rat Brain Res. 110 1976 39 56 776360 
Szymusiak R.  Alam N.  Steininger T.L.  Mcginty D.   Sleep-waking discharge patterns of ventrolateral preoptic/anterior hypothalamic neurons in rats Brain Res. 803 1998 178 188 9729371 
Takahashi K.  Koyama Y.  Kayama Y.  Yamamoto M.   Effects of orexin on the laterodorsal tegmental neurones Psychiatry Clin. Neurosci. 56 2002 335 336 12047621 
Takakusaki K.  Takahashi K.  Saitoh K.  Harada H.  Okumura T.  Kayama Y.  Koyama Y.   Orexinergic projections to the cat midbrain mediate alternation of emotional behavioural states from locomotion to cataplexy J. Physiol. (Paris) 568 2005 1003 1020 
Tamakawa Y.  Karashima A.  Koyama Y.  Katayama N.  Nakao M.   A quartet neural system model orchestrating sleep and wakefulness mechanisms J. Neurophysiol. 95 2006 2055 2069 16282204 
Tan C.P.  Sano H.  Iwaasa H.  Pan J.  Sailer A.W.  Hreniuk D.L.  Feighner S.D.  Palyha O.C.  Pong S.S.  Figueroa D.J.  Austin C.P.  Jiang M.M.  Yu H.  Ito J.  Ito M.  Ito M.  Guan X.M.  Macneil D.J.  Kanatani A.  Van Der Ploeg L.H.  Howard A.D.   Melanin-concentrating hormone receptor subtypes 1 and 2: species-specific gene expression Genomics 79 2002 785 792 12036292 
Tatemoto K.  Rokaeus A.  Jornvall H.  Mcdonald T.J.  Mutt V.   Galanin - a novel biologically active peptide from porcine intestine FEBS Lett. 164 1983 124 128 6197320 
Thakkar M.  Portas C.  Mccarley R.W.   Chronic low-amplitude electrical stimulation of the laterodorsal tegmental nucleus of freely moving cats increases REM sleep Brain Res. 723 1996 223 227 8813404 
Thannickal T.C.  Moore R.Y.  Nienhuis R.  Ramanathan L.  Gulyani S.  Aldrich M.  Cornford M.  Siegel J.M.   Reduced number of hypocretin neurons in human narcolepsy Neuron 27 2000 469 474 11055430 
Toppila J.  Stenberg D.  Alanko L.  Asikainen M.  Urban J.H.  Turek F.W.  Porkka-Heiskanen T.   REM sleep deprivation induces galanin gene expression in the rat brain Neurosci. Lett. 183 1995 171 174 7537867 
Torterolo P.  Yamuy J.  Sampogna S.  Morales F.R.  Chase M.H.   GABAergic neurons of the laterodorsal and pedunculopontine tegmental nuclei of the cat express c-fos during carbachol-induced active sleep Brain Res. 892 2001 309 319 11172778 
Tovote P.  Esposito M.S.  Botta P.  Chaudun F.  Fadok J.P.  Markovic M.  Wolff S.B.  Ramakrishnan C.  Fenno L.  Deisseroth K.  Herry C.  Arber S.  Luthi A.   Midbrain circuits for defensive behaviour Nature 534 2016 206 212 27279213 
Trivedi P.  Yu H.  Macneil D.J.  Van Der Ploeg L.H.  Guan X.M.   Distribution of orexin receptor mRNA in the rat brain FEBS Lett. 438 1998 71 75 9821961 
Trulson M.E.  Jacobs B.L.   Raphe unit activity in freely moving cats: correlation with level of behavioral arousal Brain Res. 163 1979 135 150 218676 
Tsujino N.  Sakurai T.   Orexin/hypocretin: a neuropeptide at the interface of sleep, energy homeostasis, and reward system Pharmacol. Rev. 61 2009 162 176 19549926 
Tsunematsu T.  Ueno T.  Tabuchi S.  Inutsuka A.  Tanaka K.F.  Hasuwa H.  Kilduff T.S.  Terao A.  Yamanaka A.   Optogenetic manipulation of activity and temporally controlled cell-specific ablation reveal a role for MCH neurons in sleep/wake regulation J. Neurosci. 34 2014 6896 6909 24828644 
Urbain N.  Creamer K.  Debonnel G.   Electrophysiological diversity of the dorsal raphe cells across the sleep-wake cycle of the rat J. Physiol. (Paris) 573 2006 679 695 
Uschakov A.  Gong H.  Mcginty D.  Szymusiak R.   Efferent projections from the median preoptic nucleus to sleep- and arousal-regulatory nuclei in the rat brain Neuroscience 150 2007 104 120 17928156 
Uschakov A.  Mcginty D.  Szymusiak R.  Mckinley M.J.   Functional correlates of activity in neurons projecting from the lamina terminalis to the ventrolateral periaqueductal gray Eur. J. Neurosci. 30 2009 2347 2355 20092577 
Valencia Garcia S.  Brischoux F.  Clement O.  Libourel P.A.  Arthaud S.  Lazarus M.  Luppi P.H.  Fort P.   Ventromedial medulla inhibitory neuron inactivation induces REM sleep without atonia and REM sleep behavior disorder Nat. Commun. 9 2018 504 29402935 
Van Bockstaele E.J.  Pieribone V.A.  Aston-Jones G.   Diverse afferents converge on the nucleus paragigantocellularis in the rat ventrolateral medulla: retrograde and anterograde tracing studies J. Comp. Neurol. 290 1989 561 584 2482306 
Van Den Pol A.N.  Acuna-Goycolea C.  Clark K.R.  Ghosh P.K.   Physiological properties of hypothalamic MCH neurons identified with selective expression of reporter gene after recombinant virus infection Neuron 42 2004 635 652 15157424 
Van Dort C.J.  Zachs D.P.  Kenny J.D.  Zheng S.  Goldblum R.R.  Gelwan N.A.  Ramos D.M.  Nolan M.A.  Wang K.  Weng F.J.  Lin Y.  Wilson M.A.  Brown E.N.   Optogenetic activation of cholinergic neurons in the PPT or LDT induces REM sleep Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U. S. A. 112 2015 584 589 25548191 
Vaughan J.M.  Fischer W.H.  Hoeger C.  Rivier J.  Vale W.   Characterization of melanin-concentrating hormone from rat hypothalamus Endocrinology 125 1989 1660 1665 2759038 
Velazquez-Moctezuma J.  Gillin J.C.  Shiromani P.J.   Effect of specific M1, M2 muscarinic receptor agonists on REM sleep generation Brain Res. 503 1989 128 131 2482113 
Verret L.  Goutagny R.  Fort P.  Cagnon L.  Salvert D.  Leger L.  Boissard R.  Salin P.  Peyron C.  Luppi P.H.   A role of melanin-concentrating hormone producing neurons in the central regulation of paradoxical sleep BMC Neurosci. 4 2003 19 12964948 
Verret L.  Leger L.  Fort P.  Luppi P.H.   Cholinergic and noncholinergic brainstem neurons expressing Fos after paradoxical (REM) sleep deprivation and recovery Eur. J. Neurosci. 21 2005 2488 2504 15932606 
Verret L.  Fort P.  Gervasoni D.  Leger L.  Luppi P.H.   Localization of the neurons active during paradoxical (REM) sleep and projecting to the locus coeruleus noradrenergic neurons in the rat J. Comp. Neurol. 495 2006 573 586 16498678 
Vertes R.P.   A PHA-L analysis of ascending projections of the dorsal raphe nucleus in the rat J. Comp. Neurol. 313 1991 643 668 1783685 
Vetrivelan R.  Kong D.  Ferrari L.L.  Arrigoni E.  Madara J.C.  Bandaru S.S.  Lowell B.B.  Lu J.  Saper C.B.   Melanin-concentrating hormone neurons specifically promote rapid eye movement sleep in mice Neuroscience 336 2016 102 113 27595887 
Wang H.L.  Morales M.   Pedunculopontine and laterodorsal tegmental nuclei contain distinct populations of cholinergic, glutamatergic and GABAergic neurons in the rat Eur. J. Neurosci. 29 2009 340 358 19200238 
Weber F.   Modeling the mammalian sleep cycle Curr. Opin. Neurobiol. 46 2017 68 75 28841438 
Weber F.  Dan Y.   Circuit-based interrogation of sleep control Nature 538 2016 51 59 27708309 
Weber F.  Chung S.  Beier K.T.  Xu M.  Luo L.  Dan Y.   Control of REM sleep by ventral medulla GABAergic neurons Nature 526 2015 435 438 26444238 
Weber F.  Hoang Do J.P.  Chung S.  Beier K.T.  Bikov M.  Saffari Doost M.  Dan Y.   Regulation of REM and Non-REM sleep by periaqueductal GABAergic neurons Nat. Commun. 9 2018 354 29367602 
Webster H.H.  Jones B.E.   Neurotoxic lesions of the dorsolateral pontomesencephalic tegmentum-cholinergic cell area in the cat. II. Effects upon sleep-waking states Brain Res. 458 1988 285 302 2905197 
Wehrle R.  Kaufmann C.  Wetter T.C.  Holsboer F.  Auer D.P.  Pollmacher T.  Czisch M.   Functional microstates within human REM sleep: first evidence from fMRI of a thalamocortical network specific for phasic REM periods Eur. J. Neurosci. 25 2007 863 871 17328781 
Welsh D.K.  Takahashi J.S.  Kay S.A.   Suprachiasmatic nucleus: cell autonomy and network properties Annu. Rev. Physiol. 72 2010 551 577 20148688 
Williams J.A.  Reiner P.B.   Noradrenaline hyperpolarizes identified rat mesopontine cholinergic neurons in vitro J. Neurosci. 13 1993 3878 3883 8103553 
Woolf N.J.  Butcher L.L.   Cholinergic systems in the rat brain: IV. Descending projections of the pontomesencephalic tegmentum Brain Res. Bull. 23 1989 519 540 2611694 
Xi M.C.  Morales F.R.  Chase M.H.   Evidence that wakefulness and REM sleep are controlled by a GABAergic pontine mechanism J. Neurophysiol. 82 1999 2015 2019 10515993 
Xi M.C.  Morales F.R.  Chase M.H.   Effects on sleep and wakefulness of the injection of hypocretin-1 (orexin-A) into the laterodorsal tegmental nucleus of the cat Brain Res. 901 2001 259 264 11368975 
Yamanaka A.  Tsujino N.  Funahashi H.  Honda K.  Guan J.L.  Wang Q.P.  Tominaga M.  Goto K.  Shioda S.  Sakurai T.   Orexins activate histaminergic neurons via the orexin 2 receptor Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 290 2002 1237 1245 11811995 
Yamanaka A.  Muraki Y.  Ichiki K.  Tsujino N.  Kilduff T.S.  Goto K.  Sakurai T.   Orexin neurons are directly and indirectly regulated by catecholamines in a complex manner J. Neurophysiol. 96 2006 284 298 16611835 
Yang C.  Brown R.E.   The cholinergic agonist carbachol increases the frequency of spontaneous GABAergic synaptic currents in dorsal raphe serotonergic neurons in the mouse Neuroscience 258 2014 62 73 24231737 
Yoshida K.  Mccormack S.  Espana R.A.  Crocker A.  Scammell T.E.   Afferents to the orexin neurons of the rat brain J. Comp. Neurol. 494 2006 845 861 16374809 
Yuzgec O.  Prsa M.  Zimmermann R.  Huber D.   Pupil size coupling to cortical states protects the stability of deep sleep via parasympathetic modulation Curr. Biol. 2018 
Zhang J.P.  Xu Q.  Yuan X.S.  Cherasse Y.  Schiffmann S.N.  De Kerchove D’exaerde A.  Qu W.M.  Urade Y.  Lazarus M.  Huang Z.L.  Li R.X.   Projections of nucleus accumbens adenosine A2A receptor neurons in the mouse brain and their implications in mediating sleep-wake regulation Front. Neuroanat. 7 2013 43 24409122

