1. Diabetes. 2000 Jul;49(7):1073-7. doi: 10.2337/diabetes.49.7.1073.

Melanin-concentrating hormone regulates leptin synthesis and secretion in rat 
adipocytes.

Bradley RL(1), Kokkotou EG, Maratos-Flier E, Cheatham B.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts, USA.

Obesity is a common problem in Western society and is associated with 
significant morbidity and mortality. Energy homeostasis is regulated by a 
complex system involving both peripheral signals such as leptin and a number of 
orexigenic and anorectic neuropeptides. Obesity can result from dysregulation of 
the peripheral and/or central signals. Melanin-concentrating hormone (MCH) is a 
hypothalamic peptide that is important in the regulation of feeding behavior, 
primarily via uncharacterized signaling pathways in the central nervous system. 
Leptin, expressed in adipose tissue, mediates some of its actions through 
several hypothalamic neuropeptides, notably agouti-related peptide, 
proopiomelanocortin, and neuropeptide Y. Expression of leptin is regulated by 
dietary status, insulin, and glucocorticoids. Furthermore, certain neuropeptides 
may act on adipocytes. However, the potential effect of MCH has not been 
investigated. We report that MCH stimulates leptin mRNA expression and leptin 
secretion. MCH stimulated a 2-fold increase in leptin secretion by isolated rat 
adipocytes after 4 h of treatment. This increase in secreted leptin was preceded 
by a rapid and transient increase in ob mRNA levels; MCH stimulated a 2.5-fold 
increase in ob mRNA within 1 h of treatment, followed by a decline to basal 
levels within 4 h. In addition, we demonstrate that the MCH receptor SLC-1 is 
expressed in adipocytes, suggesting that fat cells may be targets of MCH or an 
MCH-like peptide under physiological conditions. Finally, using a 
radioimmunoassay, MCH/MCH-like peptide was detected in rat plasma. This study 
establishes a novel in vitro mammalian system for examining MCH signaling 
pathways.

DOI: 10.2337/diabetes.49.7.1073
PMID: 10909960 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
