1. Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 2001 Jan;42(1):206-9.

Expression of the melanin-concentrating hormone receptor in porcine and human 
ciliary epithelial cells.

Hintermann E(1), Erb C, Talke-Messerer C, Liu R, Tanner H, Flammer J, Eberle AN.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Endocrinology, Department of Research, University Eye Clinic, 
University Hospital and University Children's Hospital, Basel, Switzerland.

PURPOSE: To evaluate whether the receptors for melanin-concentrating hormone 
(MCH) and its functional antagonist alpha-melanocyte-stimulating hormone 
(alpha-MSH) are expressed in the ciliary epithelium. Furthermore, to examine 
whether MCH, a neuropeptide involved in fluid and electrolyte homeostasis, may 
influence ion flux mediated by Na,K (adenosine triphosphatase)-ATPase in a 
ciliary epithelial cell line.
METHODS: Expression of MCH receptors (MCH-R) and alpha-MSH receptors (MSH-R) on 
primary porcine ciliary pigmented epithelial (PE) cells and on a human 
nonpigmented ciliary epithelial (NPE) cell line, ODM-2 was investigated by 
radioligand binding studies and reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction 
(RT-PCR). The MCH-R was further characterized by photocrosslinking. Influence of 
MCH on Na, K-ATPase activity was evaluated by an Rb(+) transport assay.
RESULTS: MCH-R expression was observed at both the mRNA and protein levels in PE 
and NPE cells. In contrast, MSH-Rs were not detectable. At the mRNA level, 
expression of slc-1 was shown and with crosslinking, a 44-kDa protein was 
labeled. MCH showed no effect on Na,K-ATPase activity of NPE cells.
CONCLUSIONS: The presence of MCH-R in ciliary epithelial cells of both human and 
porcine origin but the absence of MSH-Rs indicates that in these cells, MCH and 
alpha-MSH do not form a functionally antagonistic hormonal pair as they do in 
several other systems. Although effects of MCH on intestinal water and ion 
transport have been documented, a direct control of Na,K-ATPase activity was not 
detected in human NPE cells in vitro.

PMID: 11133869 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
