1. Eur J Endocrinol. 2005 Jun;152(6):851-62. doi: 10.1530/eje.1.01917.

Mutation analysis of the MCHR1 gene in human obesity.

Wermter AK(1), Reichwald K, Büch T, Geller F, Platzer C, Huse K, Hess C, 
Remschmidt H, Gudermann T, Preibisch G, Siegfried W, Goldschmidt HP, Li WD, 
Price RA, Biebermann H, Krude H, Vollmert C, Wichmann HE, Illig T, Sørensen TI, 
Astrup A, Larsen LH, Pedersen O, Eberlé D, Clément K, Blundell J, Wabitsch M, 
Schäfer H, Platzer M, Hinney A, Hebebrand J.

Author information:
(1)Clinical Research Group, Department of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry, 
Rheinische Kliniken Essen, University of Duisburg-Essen, 45147 Essen, Germany.

OBJECTIVE: The importance of the melanin-concentrating hormone (MCH) system for 
regulation of energy homeostasis and body weight has been demonstrated in 
rodents. We analysed the human MCH receptor 1 gene (MCHR1) with respect to human 
obesity.
DESIGN: This consisted of genomic screening of 13.4 kb encompassing the MCHR1 in 
extremely obese German children and adolescents and association analyses for two 
coding single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs). To confirm initial positive 
association results, additional association studies and transmission 
disequilibrium tests in further German, Danish, French and American samples were 
conducted. Selected SNPs were investigated using functional in vitro studies and 
reporter gene assays.
METHODS: Single-stranded conformation polymorphism analysis, re-sequencing, 
PCR-restriction fragment length polymorphism analyses, tetra-primer 
amplification refractory mutation systems, matrix-assisted laser 
desorption/ionization time of flight mass spectrometry and reporter gene assays 
were carried out as well as measuring inositol phosphate formation, inhibition 
of cAMP formation and activation of p42/44 MAP kinase.
RESULTS: We identified 11 infrequent variations and two SNPs in the MCHR1 coding 
sequence and 18 SNPs (eight novel) in the flanking sequence. Association and 
transmission disequilibrium with obesity were detected for several SNPs in 
independent study groups of German obese children and adolescents and controls. 
In two German samples, encompassing 4056 and 295 individuals, trends towards 
association with obesity were detected. Findings in a second epidemiological 
German sample and in Danish, French and American samples were negative. 
Functional in vitro studies as well as reporter gene assays revealed no 
significant results.
CONCLUSION: Our initial association of MCHR1 alleles/haplotype detected might be 
related to juvenile-onset obesity, conditional on a particular genetic and/or 
environmental background. Alternatively, we could not exclude the possibility 
that the initially detected association represented a false positive finding.

DOI: 10.1530/eje.1.01917
PMID: 15941924 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
