1. Neuroscience. 2006;137(4):1405-15. doi: 10.1016/j.neuroscience.2005.10.057.
Epub  2005 Dec 15.

Feeding-dependent depression of melanin-concentrating hormone and 
melanin-concentrating hormone receptor-1 expression in vagal afferent neurones.

Burdyga G(1), Varro A, Dimaline R, Thompson DG, Dockray GJ.

Author information:
(1)Physiological Laboratory, School of Biomedical Sciences, University of 
Liverpool, Crown Street, Liverpool L69 3BX, UK.

Food intake is regulated by signals from the gastrointestinal tract. Both 
stimulation and inhibition of food intake may be mediated by upper 
gastrointestinal tract hormones, e.g. ghrelin and cholecystokinin that act at 
least partly via vagal afferent neurones. We now report that vagal afferent 
neurones in both rat and man express melanin-concentrating hormone and its 
receptor, melanin-concentrating hormone-1R. In nodose ganglia from rats fasted 
for 24 h, RT-PCR revealed the expression of both melanin-concentrating hormone 
and melanin-concentrating hormone-1R, whereas in ganglia from animals fed ad 
libitum expression was virtually undetectable. Immunohistochemical studies also 
revealed expression of melanin-concentrating hormone and melanin-concentrating 
hormone-1R in nodose ganglion neurones of fasted rats, but signals were weak in 
rats fed ad libitum. Melanin-concentrating hormone and melanin-concentrating 
hormone-1R were expressed in the same neurones, a high proportion of which also 
expressed the cholecystokinin-1 receptor. When fasted rats were refed, there was 
down-regulation of melanin-concentrating hormone and melanin-concentrating 
hormone-1R expression over a period of 5 h. Similar effects were produced by 
administration of cholecystokinin to fasted rats. The cholecystokinin-1 receptor 
antagonist lorglumide inhibited food-induced down-regulation of 
melanin-concentrating hormone and melanin-concentrating hormone-1R. We conclude 
that the satiety hormone cholecystokinin acts on vagal afferent neurones to 
inhibit expression of melanin-concentrating hormone and its receptor. Since the 
melanin-concentrating hormone system is associated with stimulation of food 
intake this effect of cholecystokinin may contribute to its action as a satiety 
hormone.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuroscience.2005.10.057
PMID: 16359819 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
