1. Mol Cell Endocrinol. 2006 Oct 19;259(1-2):1-9. doi: 10.1016/j.mce.2006.07.003.
 Epub 2006 Sep 20.

Manipulation of small-molecule inhibitory kinetics modulates MCH-R1 function.

Schwarz DA(1), Allen MM, Petroski RE, Pomeroy JE, Heise CE, Mistry MS, Selkirk 
JV, Nottebaum LM, Grey J, Zhang M, Goodfellow VS, Maki RA.

Author information:
(1)Neurocrine Biosciences, Inc., Department of Molecular Biology, 12790 El 
Camino Real, San Diego, CA 92130, USA. dschwarz@neurocrine.com

The capacity of novel benzopyridazinone-based antagonists to inhibit MCH-R1 
function, relative to their affinity for the receptor, has been investigated. 
Three compounds that differ by the addition of either a chlorine atom, or 
trifluoromethyl group, have nearly identical receptor affinities; however their 
abilities to inhibit receptor elicited signaling events, measured as a function 
of time, are dramatically altered. Both the chlorinated and trifluoromethyl 
modified compounds have a very slow on-rate to maximal functional inhibition 
relative to the unmodified base compound. A similar impact on inhibitory 
capacity can be achieved by modifying the side-chain composition at position 
2.53 of the receptor; replacement of the native phenylalanine with alanine 
significantly reduces the amount of time required by the chlorinated compound to 
attain maximal functional inhibition. The primary attribute responsible for this 
alteration in inhibitory capacity appears to be the overall bulk of the amino 
acid at this position-substitution of the similarly sized amino acids leucine 
and tyrosine results in phenotypes that are indistinguishable from the wild type 
receptor. Finally, the impact of these differential inhibitory kinetics has been 
examined in cultured rat neurons by measuring the ability of the compounds to 
reverse MCH mediated inhibition of calcium currents. As observed using the cell 
expression models, the chlorinated compound has a diminished capacity to 
interfere with receptor function. Collectively, these data suggest that 
differential inhibitory on rates between a small-molecule antagonist and its 
target receptor can impact the ability of the compound to modify the biological 
response(s) elicited by the receptor.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mce.2006.07.003
PMID: 16987592 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
