1. Synapse. 2008 Feb;62(2):128-36. doi: 10.1002/syn.20473.

Behavioral and biochemical responses to d-amphetamine in MCH1 receptor knockout 
mice.

Smith DG(1), Qi H, Svenningsson P, Wade M, Davis RJ, Gehlert DR, Nomikos GG.

Author information:
(1)Eli Lilly and Company, Neuroscience Discovery Research, Indianapolis, Indiana 
46285, USA. dgs@lundbeck.com

The melanin-concentrating hormone (MCH) system is anatomically and functionally 
interlaced with the mesocorticolimbic dopamine system. Therefore, we 
investigated whether MCH(1) receptor knockout (KO) mice are more susceptible 
than wild-type (WT) mice to psychostimulant-induced locomotor stimulation and 
sensitization, dopamine receptor-mediated phosphorylation events and c-fos 
expression within the frontal cortex and ventral striatum. MCH(1) receptor KO 
mice have 20% higher basal locomotor activity, are hypersensitive to the 
locomotor activating effects of d-amphetamine (1 mg/kg), and develop behavioral 
sensitization to a regimen of repeated d-amphetamine administration that does 
not induce sensitization in WT mice. In addition, d-amphetamine-mediated 
regulation of p44-mitogen activated protein kinase (MAPK) phosphorylation within 
the frontal cortex was significantly enhanced in MCH(1) receptor KO mice, when 
compared with WT mice. No significant genotype difference in the effects of 
d-amphetamine on MAPK phosphorylation events within the ventral striatum, 
phosphorylation at Ser(897) of the NR1 subunit of the NMDA receptor or Ca(2+) 
and cyclic AMP response-element binding-protein (CREB) at Ser(133) in the 
frontal cortex was detected. d-Amphetamine (3 mg/kg) increased c-fos expression 
within the frontal cortex in MCH(1) receptor KO mice, but not WT mice. There 
were no d-amphetamine-induced changes in c-fos expression within the 
ventromedial striatum in KO or WT mice. Overall, MCH(1) receptor KO mice are 
hypersensitive to the behavioral and molecular effects of the dopaminergic 
psychostimulant d-amphetamine. Increased frontal cortical MAPK phosphorylation 
and c-fos expression in MCH(1) receptor KO mice indicates that the MCH(1) 
receptor may be an important target for treating neuropsychiatric disorders 
characterized by frontal cortex dysfunction, including depression, attention 
deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) and schizophrenia.

(c) 2007 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/syn.20473
PMID: 18000809 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
