1. Am J Physiol Regul Integr Comp Physiol. 2009 Mar;296(3):R469-75. doi: 
10.1152/ajpregu.90556.2008. Epub 2009 Jan 7.

Effects of intracerebroventricular and intra-accumbens melanin-concentrating 
hormone agonism on food intake and energy expenditure.

Guesdon B(1), Paradis E, Samson P, Richard D.

Author information:
(1)Centre de Recherche de l'Hôpital Laval et Centre de Recherche sur le 
Métabolisme Energétique de l'Université Laval, Québec, Canada.

The brain melanin-concentrating hormone (MCH) system represents an anabolic 
system involved in energy balance regulation through influences exerted on the 
homeostatic and nonhomeostatic controls of food intake and energy expenditure. 
The present study was designed to further delineate the effect of the MCH system 
on energy balance regulation by assessing the actions of the MCH receptor 1 
(MCHR1) agonism on both food intake and energy expenditure after 
intracerebroventricular (third ventricle) and intra-nucleus-accumbens-shell 
(intraNAcSH) injections of a MCHR1 agonist. Total energy expenditure and 
substrate oxidation were assessed following injections in male Wistar rats using 
indirect calorimetry. Food intake was also measured. Pair-fed groups were added 
to evaluate changes in thermogenesis that would occur regardless of the meal 
size and its thermogenic response. Using such experimental conditions, we were 
able to demonstrate that acute MCH agonism in the brain, besides its orexigenic 
effect, induced a noticeable change in the utilization of the main metabolic 
fuels. In pair-fed animals, MCH significantly reduced lipid oxidation when it 
was injected in the third ventricle. Such an effect was not observed following 
the injection of MCH in the NAcSH, where MCH nonetheless strongly stimulated 
appetite. The present results further delineate the influence of MCH on energy 
expenditure and substrate oxidation while confirming the key role of the NAcSH 
in the effects of the MCH system on food intake.

DOI: 10.1152/ajpregu.90556.2008
PMID: 19129377 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
