1. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2009 Oct 6;106(40):17217-22. doi: 
10.1073/pnas.0908200106. Epub 2009 Sep 21.

Melanin-concentrating hormone directly inhibits GnRH neurons and blocks 
kisspeptin activation, linking energy balance to reproduction.

Wu M(1), Dumalska I, Morozova E, van den Pol A, Alreja M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Yale University School of Medicine and the Ribicoff 
Research Facilities, Connecticut Mental Health Center, New Haven, CT 06508, USA.

A link between energy balance and reproduction is critical for the survival of 
all species. Energy-consuming reproductive processes need to be aborted in the 
face of a negative energy balance, yet knowledge of the pathways mediating this 
link remains limited. Fasting and food restriction that inhibit fertility also 
upregulate the hypothalamic melanin-concentrating hormone (MCH) system that 
promotes feeding and decreases energy expenditure; MCH knockout mice are lean 
and have a higher metabolism but remain fertile. MCH also modulates sleep, drug 
abuse behavior, and mood, and MCH receptor antagonists are currently being 
developed as antiobesity and antidepressant drugs. Despite the clinical 
implications of MCH, the direct postsynaptic effects of MCH have never been 
reported in CNS neurons. Using patch-clamp recordings in brain slices from 
multiple lines of transgenic GFP mice, we demonstrate a strong inhibitory effect 
of MCH on an exclusive population of septal vGluT2-GnRH neurons that is 
activated by the puberty-triggering and preovulatory luteinizing hormone 
surge-mediating peptide, kisspeptin. MCH has no effect on kisspeptin-insensitive 
GnRH, vGluT2, cholinergic, or GABAergic neurons located within the same nucleus. 
The inhibitory effects of MCH are reproducible and nondesensitizing and are 
mediated via a direct postsynaptic Ba(2+)-sensitive K(+) channel mechanism 
involving the MCHR1 receptor. MCH immunoreactive fibers are in close proximity 
to vGluT2-GFP and GnRH-GFP neurons. Importantly, MCH blocks the excitatory 
effect of kisspeptin on vGluT2-GnRH neurons. Considering the role of MCH in 
regulating energy balance and of GnRH and kisspeptin in triggering puberty and 
maintaining fertility, MCH may provide a critical link between energy balance 
and reproduction directly at the level of the kisspeptin-activated vGluT2-GnRH 
neuron.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.0908200106
PMCID: PMC2761345
PMID: 19805188 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.
