1. BMC Genomics. 2011 Apr 19;12:200. doi: 10.1186/1471-2164-12-200.

Gene expression patterns in four brain areas associate with quantitative measure 
of estrous behavior in dairy cows.

Kommadath A(1), Woelders H, Beerda B, Mulder HA, de Wit AA, Veerkamp RF, te Pas 
MF, Smits MA.

Author information:
(1)Animal Breeding and Genomics Centre, Wageningen UR Livestock Research, 
Lelystad, The Netherlands. arun.kommadath@wur.nl

BACKGROUND: The decline noticed in several fertility traits of dairy cattle over 
the past few decades is of major concern. Understanding of the genomic factors 
underlying fertility, which could have potential applications to improve 
fertility, is very limited. Here, we aimed to identify and study those genes 
that associated with a key fertility trait namely estrous behavior, among genes 
expressed in four bovine brain areas (hippocampus, amygdala, dorsal hypothalamus 
and ventral hypothalamus), either at the start of estrous cycle, or at mid 
cycle, or regardless of the phase of cycle.
RESULTS: An average heat score was calculated for each of 28 primiparous cows in 
which estrous behavior was recorded for at least two consecutive estrous cycles 
starting from 30 days post-partum. Gene expression was then measured in brain 
tissue samples collected from these cows, 14 of which were sacrificed at the 
start of estrus and 14 around mid cycle. For each brain area, gene expression 
was modeled as a function of the orthogonally transformed average heat score 
values using a Bayesian hierarchical mixed model. Genes whose expression 
patterns showed significant linear or quadratic relationships with heat scores 
were identified. These included genes expected to be related to estrous behavior 
as they influence states like socio-sexual behavior, anxiety, stress and feeding 
motivation (OXT, AVP, POMC, MCHR1), but also genes whose association with 
estrous behavior is novel and warrants further investigation.
CONCLUSIONS: Several genes were identified whose expression levels in the bovine 
brain associated with the level of expression of estrous behavior. The genes OXT 
and AVP play major roles in regulating estrous behavior in dairy cows. Genes 
related to neurotransmission and neuronal plasticity are also involved in 
estrous regulation, with several genes and processes expressed in mid-cycle 
probably contributing to proper expression of estrous behavior in the next 
estrus. Studying these genes and the processes they control improves our 
understanding of the genomic regulation of estrous behavior expression.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2164-12-200
PMCID: PMC3110153
PMID: 21504592 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
