1. Pharmacol Biochem Behav. 2012 Jan;100(3):581-6. doi:
10.1016/j.pbb.2011.08.009.  Epub 2011 Sep 7.

Expression levels of genes encoding melanin concentrating hormone (MCH) and MCH 
receptor change in taste aversion, but MCH injections do not alleviate aversive 
responses.

Mitra A(1), Klockars A, Gosnell BA, Le Grevès M, Olszewski PK, Levine AS, 
Schiöth HB.

Author information:
(1)Department of Food Science and Nutrition, University of Minnesota, Saint 
Paul, MN, USA. amitra@stkate.edu

Melanin concentrating hormone (MCH) stimulates feeding driven by energy needs 
and reward and modifies anxiety behavior. Orexigenic peptides of similar 
characteristics, including nociceptin/orphanin FQ, Agouti-related protein and 
opioids, increase consumption also by reducing avoidance of potentially tainted 
food in animals displaying a conditioned taste aversion (CTA). Herein, using 
real-time PCR, we assessed whether expression levels of genes encoding MCH and 
its receptor, MCHR1, were affected in CTA in the rat. We also investigated 
whether injecting MCH intracerebroventricularly (ICV) during the acquisition and 
retrieval of LiCl-induced CTA, would alleviate aversive responses. MCHR1 gene 
was upregulated in the hypothalamus and brain stem of aversive animals, MCH mRNA 
was significantly higher in the hypothalamus, whereas a strong trend suggesting 
upregulation of MCH and MCHR1 genes was detected in the amygdala. Despite these 
expression changes associated with aversion, MCH injected prior to the induction 
of CTA with LiCl as well as later, during the CTA retrieval upon subsequent 
presentations of the aversive tastant, did not reduce the magnitude of CTA. We 
conclude that MCH and its receptor form an orexigenic system whose expression is 
affected in CTA. This altered MCH expression may contribute to tastant-targeted 
hypophagia in CTA. However, changing the MCH tone in the brain by exogenous 
peptide was insufficient to prevent the onset or facilitate extinction of 
LiCl-induced CTA. This designates MCH as one of many accessory molecules 
associated with shaping an aversive response, but not a critical one for 
LiCl-dependent CTA to occur.

Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pbb.2011.08.009
PMCID: PMC3472968
PMID: 21925200 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
