1. Eur Neuropsychopharmacol. 2012 Aug;22(8):607-13. doi: 
10.1016/j.euroneuro.2011.12.001. Epub 2011 Dec 29.

The melanin-concentrating hormone (MCH) system in an animal model of 
depression-like behavior.

García-Fuster MJ(1), Parks GS, Clinton SM, Watson SJ, Akil H, Civelli O.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology, University of California, Irvine, CA, United 
States. j.garcia@uib.es

Selective breeding for divergence in locomotion in a novel environment (bHR, 
bred High-Responder; bLR, bred Low-Responder) correlates with stress-reactivity, 
spontaneous anxiety-like behaviors and predicts vulnerability in a rodent model 
of depression. Identifying genetic factors that may account for such 
vulnerability are key determinants not only for the illness outcome but also for 
the development of better-tailored treatment options. Melanin-concentrating 
hormone (MCH) is a neuropeptide that exhibits some of the hallmarks of a 
regulator of affective states. The aim of this study was to ascertain the role 
of the MCH system in depression-like behaviors in bHR vs. bLR rats. bLR rats 
showed a 44% increase in hypothalamic pMCH mRNA and a 14% decrease in 
hippocampal CA1 MCH1R mRNA when compared to bHR rats. Interestingly, the amount 
of time that rats spent immobile in the FST (depressive-like behavior) 
correlated positively with the amount of hypothalamic pMCH mRNA and negatively 
with that of hippocampal CA1 MCH1R. The results indicate that the bLR-bHR is a 
useful rat model to investigate individual basal genetic differences that 
participate in the monitoring of emotional responsiveness (i.e., depression- and 
anxiety-like behaviors). They also point to the MCH system (i.e., chronically 
higher pMCH expression and consequently receptor down-regulation) as a candidate 
biomarker for the severity of depressive-like behavior. The data indicate that 
MCH1R participates in the modulation of depression-like behavior through a 
process that involves the CA1 region of the hippocampus, supporting the possible 
use of MCH1R antagonists in the treatment of depression.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier B.V. and ECNP. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.euroneuro.2011.12.001
PMCID: PMC3319808
PMID: 22209364 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest The authors declare no 
competing financial interests in relation to the work described.
