1. Dev Neurobiol. 2013 Jan;73(1):1-13. doi: 10.1002/dneu.22031. Epub 2012 Jul 20.

A truncating mutation of Alms1 reduces the number of hypothalamic neuronal cilia 
in obese mice.

Heydet D(1), Chen LX, Larter CZ, Inglis C, Silverman MA, Farrell GC, Leroux MR.

Author information:
(1)Liver Research Group, ANU Medical School at The Canberra Hospital, Canberra, 
ACT, Australia.

Primary cilia are ubiquitous cellular antennae whose dysfunction collectively 
causes various disorders, including vision and hearing impairment, as well as 
renal, skeletal, and central nervous system anomalies. One ciliopathy, Alström 
syndrome, is closely related to Bardet-Biedl syndrome (BBS), sharing amongst 
other phenotypic features morbid obesity. As the cellular and molecular links 
between weight regulation and cilia are poorly understood, we used the obese 
mouse strain foz/foz, bearing a truncating mutation in the Alström syndrome 
protein (Alms1), to help elucidate why it develops hyperphagia, leading to early 
onset obesity and metabolic anomalies. Our in vivo studies reveal that Alms1 
localizes at the base of cilia in hypothalamic neurons, which are implicated in 
the control of satiety. Alms1 is lost from this location in foz/foz mice, 
coinciding with a strong postnatal reduction (∼70%) in neurons displaying cilia 
marked with adenylyl cyclase 3 (AC3), a signaling protein implicated in obesity. 
Notably, the reduction in AC3-bearing cilia parallels the decrease in cilia 
containing two appetite-regulating proteins, Mchr1 and Sstr3, as well as another 
established Arl13b ciliary marker, consistent with progressive loss of cilia 
during development. Together, our results suggest that Alms1 maintains the 
function of neuronal cilia implicated in weight regulation by influencing the 
maintenance and/or stability of the organelle. Given that Mchr1 and Sstr3 
localization to remaining cilia is maintained in foz/foz animals but known to be 
lost from BBS knockout mice, our findings suggest different molecular etiologies 
for the satiety defects associated with the Alström syndrome and BBS 
ciliopathies.

Copyright © 2012 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/dneu.22031
PMID: 22581473 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
