1. PLoS One. 2012;7(9):e46304. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0046304. Epub 2012 Sep
27.

Heteromerization of ciliary G protein-coupled receptors in the mouse brain.

Green JA(1), Gu C, Mykytyn K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology, College of Medicine, The Ohio State University, 
Columbus, Ohio, United States of America.

Nearly every cell type in the mammalian body projects from its cell surface a 
primary cilium that provides important sensory and signaling functions. Defects 
in the formation or function of primary cilia have been implicated in the 
pathogenesis of many human developmental disorders and diseases, collectively 
termed ciliopathies. Most neurons in the brain possess cilia that are enriched 
for signaling proteins such as G protein-coupled receptors and adenylyl cyclase 
type 3, suggesting neuronal cilia sense neuromodulators in the brain and 
contribute to non-synaptic signaling. Indeed, disruption of neuronal cilia or 
loss of neuronal ciliary signaling proteins is associated with obesity and 
learning and memory deficits. As the functions of primary cilia are defined by 
the signaling proteins that localize to the ciliary compartment, identifying the 
complement of signaling proteins in cilia can provide important insights into 
their physiological roles. Here we report for the first time that different 
GPCRs can colocalize within the same cilium. Specifically, we found the ciliary 
GPCRs, melanin-concentrating hormone receptor 1 (Mchr1) and somatostatin 
receptor 3 (Sstr3) colocalizing within cilia in multiple mouse brain regions. In 
addition, we have evidence suggesting Mchr1 and Sstr3 form heteromers. As GPCR 
heteromerization can affect ligand binding properties as well as downstream 
signaling, our findings add an additional layer of complexity to neuronal 
ciliary signaling.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0046304
PMCID: PMC3459911
PMID: 23029470 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.
