1. Infect Immun. 2013 Jan;81(1):166-72. doi: 10.1128/IAI.00572-12. Epub 2012 Oct 
31.

Increased susceptibility of melanin-concentrating hormone-deficient mice to 
infection with Salmonella enterica serovar Typhimurium.

Karagiannis AK(1), Ziogas DC, Gras-Miralles B, Geiger BM, Nagel J, Trebicka E, 
Najarian R, Cherayil BJ, Kokkotou E.

Author information:
(1)Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, Harvard Medical School, Boston, 
Massachusetts, USA.

Melanin-concentrating hormone (MCH) was initially identified in mammals as a 
hypothalamic neuropeptide regulating appetite and energy balance. However, the 
wide distribution of MCH receptors in peripheral tissues suggests additional 
functions for MCH which remain largely unknown. We have previously reported that 
mice lacking MCH develop attenuated intestinal inflammation when exposed to 
Clostridium difficile toxin A. To further characterize the role of MCH in host 
defense mechanisms against intestinal pathogens, Salmonella enterocolitis (using 
Salmonella enterica serovar Typhimurium) was induced in MCH-deficient mice and 
their wild-type littermates. In the absence of MCH, infected mice had increased 
mortality associated with higher bacterial loads in blood, liver, and spleen. 
Moreover, the knockout mice developed more-severe intestinal inflammation, based 
on epithelial damage, immune cell infiltrates, and local and systemic cytokine 
levels. Paradoxically, these enhanced inflammatory responses in the MCH knockout 
mice were associated with disproportionally lower levels of macrophages 
infiltrating the intestine. Hence, we investigated potential direct effects of 
MCH on monocyte/macrophage functions critical for defense against intestinal 
pathogens. Using RAW 264.7 mouse monocytic cells, which express endogenous MCH 
receptor, we found that treatment with MCH enhanced the phagocytic capacity of 
these cells. Taken together, these findings reveal a previously unappreciated 
role for MCH in host-bacterial interactions.

DOI: 10.1128/IAI.00572-12
PMCID: PMC3536128
PMID: 23115043 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
