1. J Neuroendocrinol. 2013 Jun;25(6):570-9. doi: 10.1111/jne.12032.

Oestradiol decreases melanin-concentrating hormone (MCH) and MCH receptor 
expression in the hypothalamus of female rats.

Santollo J(1), Eckel LA.

Author information:
(1)Program in Neuroscience, Florida State University, Tallahassee, FL, USA. 
jsantoll@buffalo.edu

Previous studies have shown that oestradiol (E₂) decreases the orexigenic effect 
of melanin-concentrating hormone (MCH). In the present study, we examined 
whether this action of E₂ is mediated by its ability to decrease the expression 
of MCH or its receptor (MCHR1). Using immunocytochemistry and western blotting, 
we examined whether E₂ decreases MCH-immunoreactive neurones or MCHR1 protein 
content in the hypothalamus of female rats. We found that both MCH and MCHR1 
protein expression was decreased by acute E₂ treatment in ovariectomised rats, 
and by the peri-ovulatory increase in circulating E₂ in pro-oestrous rats, 
relative to rats at other cycle stages. To determine whether these changes in 
MCH/MCHR1 protein expression may be mediated by E₂'s ability to directly 
regulate the transcription of MCH and MCHR1 genes, the effect of E₂ treatment on 
MCH and MCHR1 mRNA expression in a neuronal hypothalamic cell line was examined 
using real-time reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction. We also 
determined whether MCH and oestrogen receptor (ER)α are co-expressed in the 
hypothalamus of female rats. E₂ treatment did not decrease MCH or MCHR1 mRNA 
expression in vitro, and no hypothalamic neurones were identified that 
co-expressed MCH and ERα. We conclude that E₂-dependent decreases in 
hypothalamic MCH/MCHR1 protein expression mediate the ability of E₂ to decrease 
MCH-induced feeding. The current findings suggest, however, that E₂ exerts these 
actions indirectly, most likely though interactions with other neuronal systems 
that provide afferent input to MCH and MCHR1 neurones.

© 2013 British Society for Neuroendocrinology.

DOI: 10.1111/jne.12032
PMCID: PMC3668853
PMID: 23414264 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
