1. Cell Signal. 2015 Apr;27(4):818-27. doi: 10.1016/j.cellsig.2015.01.008. Epub 
2015 Jan 22.

Identification of amino acids that are selectively involved in Gi/o activation 
by rat melanin-concentrating hormone receptor 1.

Hamamoto A(1), Kobayashi Y(1), Saito Y(2).

Author information:
(1)Graduate School of Integrated Arts and Sciences, Hiroshima University, 
Hiroshima, Japan.
(2)Graduate School of Integrated Arts and Sciences, Hiroshima University, 
Hiroshima, Japan. Electronic address: yumist@hiroshima-u.ac.jp.

Many G-protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) are known to functionally couple to 
multiple G-protein subfamily members. Although promiscuous G-protein coupling 
enables GPCRs to mediate diverse signals, only a few GPCRs have been identified 
with differential determinants for coupling to distinct Gα proteins. Mammalian 
melanin-concentrating hormone receptor 1 (MCHR1) couples to dual G-protein 
subfamilies. However, the selectivity mechanisms between MCHR1 and different 
subtypes of Gα proteins are unclear. Our previous studies demonstrated that 
mammalian MCHR1 couples to both Gi/o and Gq, whereas goldfish MCHR1 exclusively 
couples to Gq. In this study, we analyzed multiple sequence alignments between 
rat and goldfish MCHR1s, and designed three multisubstituted mutants of rat 
MCHR1 by replacing corresponding residues with those in goldfish MCHR1, focusing 
on regions around the cytosolic intracellular loops. By measurement of 
intracellular Ca(2+) mobilization, we found that two MCHR1 mutants, i2_6sub and 
i3_6sub, which contained six simultaneously substituted residues in the second 
intracellular loop or a combination of substituted residues in the third 
intracellular loop and fifth transmembrane domain, respectively, significantly 
reduced Gi/o-sensitive pertussis toxin responsiveness without altering 
Gq-mediated activity. Analyses of 10 other substitutions revealed that the 
multiple substitutions in i2_6sub and i3_6sub were necessary for Gi/o-selective 
responses. As judged by Gi/o-dependent GTPγS binding and cyclic AMP assays, 
i2_6sub and i3_6sub elicited phenotypes for impaired Gi/o-mediated signaling. We 
also monitored the dynamic mass redistribution (DMR) in living cells, which 
reveals receptor activity as an optical trace containing activation of all GPCR 
coupling classes. Cells transfected with i2_6sub or i3_6sub exhibited reduced 
Gi/o-mediated DMR responses compared with those transfected with MCHR1. These 
data suggest that two different regions independently affect the Gi/o-protein 
preference, and that multiple residues comprise a conformation favoring 
Gi/o-protein coupling and subsequently result in Gi/o-selective signaling.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cellsig.2015.01.008
PMID: 25617691 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
