1. Peptides. 2015 Dec;74:9-15. doi: 10.1016/j.peptides.2015.10.001. Epub 2015 Oct
 9.

MCH levels in the CSF, brain preproMCH and MCHR1 gene expression during 
paradoxical sleep deprivation, sleep rebound and chronic sleep restriction.

Dias Abdo Agamme AL(1), Aguilar Calegare BF(1), Fernandes L(1), Costa A(2), 
Lagos P(2), Torterolo P(3), D'Almeida V(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychobiology, Universidade Federal de São Paulo, São Paulo, 
Brazil.
(2)Department of Physiology, School of Medicine, Universidad de la República, 
Montevideo, Uruguay.
(3)Department of Physiology, School of Medicine, Universidad de la República, 
Montevideo, Uruguay. Electronic address: ptortero@fmed.edu.uy.

Neurons that utilize melanin-concentrating hormone (MCH) as neuromodulator are 
located in the lateral hypothalamus and incerto-hypothalamic area. These neurons 
project throughout the central nervous system and play a role in sleep 
regulation. With the hypothesis that the MCHergic system function would be 
modified by the time of the day as well as by disruptions of the sleep-wake 
cycle, we quantified in rats the concentration of MCH in the cerebrospinal fluid 
(CSF), the expression of the MCH precursor (Pmch) gene in the hypothalamus, and 
the expression of the MCH receptor 1 (Mchr1) gene in the frontal cortex and 
hippocampus. These analyses were performed during paradoxical sleep deprivation 
(by a modified multiple platform technique), paradoxical sleep rebound and 
chronic sleep restriction, both at the end of the active (dark) phase (lights 
were turned on at Zeitgeber time zero, ZT0) and during the inactive (light) 
phase (ZT8). We observed that in control condition (waking and sleep ad 
libitum), Mchr1 gene expression was larger at ZT8 (when sleep predominates) than 
at ZT0, both in frontal cortex and hippocampus. In addition, compared to 
control, disturbances of the sleep-wake cycle produced the following effects: 
paradoxical sleep deprivation for 96 and 120 h reduced the expression of Mchr1 
gene in frontal cortex at ZT0. Sleep rebound that followed 96 h of paradoxical 
sleep deprivation increased the MCH concentration in the CSF also at ZT0. 
Twenty-one days of sleep restriction produced a significant increment in MCH CSF 
levels at ZT8. Finally, sleep disruptions unveiled day/night differences in MCH 
CSF levels and in Pmch gene expression that were not observed in control 
(undisturbed) conditions. In conclusion, the time of the day and sleep 
disruptions produced subtle modifications in the physiology of the MCHergic 
system.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.peptides.2015.10.001
PMID: 26456505 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
