1. Int J Obes Suppl. 2014 Jul;4(Suppl 1):S31-6. doi: 10.1038/ijosup.2014.9. Epub 
2014 Jul 8.

The melanin-concentrating hormone receptors: neuronal and non-neuronal 
functions.

Presse F(1), Conductier G(1), Rovere C(1), Nahon JL(2).

Author information:
(1)CNRS/UNS UMR 7275, Institut de Pharmacologie Moléculaire et Cellulaire, 
Sophia Antipolis, Valbonne, France; University of Nice Sophia Antipolis, Nice, 
France.
(2)CNRS/UNS UMR 7275, Institut de Pharmacologie Moléculaire et Cellulaire, 
Sophia Antipolis, Valbonne, France; University of Nice Sophia Antipolis, Nice, 
France; CNRS UPS 846, Station de Primatologie, Rousset-sur-Arc, France.

Melanin-concentrating hormone (MCH) is a cyclic peptide highly conserved in 
vertebrates and was originally identified as a skin-paling factor in Teleosts. 
In fishes, MCH also participates in the regulation of the stress-response and 
feeding behaviour. Mammalian MCH is a hypothalamic neuropeptide that displays 
multiple functions, mostly controlling feeding behaviour and energy homeostasis. 
Transgenic mouse models and pharmacological studies have shown the importance of 
the MCH system as a potential target in the treatment of appetite disorders and 
obesity as well as anxiety and psychiatric diseases. Two G-protein-coupled 
receptors (GPCRs) binding MCH have been characterized so far. The first, named 
MCH-R1 and also called SLC1, was identified through reverse pharmacology 
strategies by several groups as a cognate receptor of MCH. This receptor is 
expressed at high levels in many brain areas of rodents and primates and is also 
expressed in peripheral organs, albeit at a lower rate. A second receptor, 
designated MCH-R2, exhibited 38% identity to MCH-R1 and was identified by 
sequence analysis of the human genome. Interestingly, although MCH-R2 
orthologues were also found in fishes, dogs, ferrets and non-human primates, 
this MCH receptor gene appeared either lacking or non-functional in rodents and 
lagomorphs. Both receptors are class I GPCRs, whose main roles are to mediate 
the actions of peptides and neurotransmitters in the central nervous system. 
However, examples of action of MCH on neuronal and non-neuronal cells are 
emerging that illustrate novel MCH functions. In particular, the functionality 
of endogenously expressed MCH-R1 has been explored in human neuroblastoma cells, 
SK-N-SH and SH-SY5Y cells, and in non-neuronal cell types such as the 
ependymocytes. Indeed, we have identified mitogen-activated protein kinase 
(MAPK)-dependent or calcium-dependent signalling cascades that ultimately 
contributed to neurite outgrowth in neuroblastoma cells or to modulation of 
ciliary beating in ependymal cells. The putative role of MCH on cellular shaping 
and plasticity on one side and volume transmission on the other must be now 
considered.

DOI: 10.1038/ijosup.2014.9
PMCID: PMC4850588
PMID: 27152164
