1. Hepatology. 2016 Oct;64(4):1086-104. doi: 10.1002/hep.28716. Epub 2016 Aug 9.

Hypothalamic kappa opioid receptor mediates both diet-induced and melanin 
concentrating hormone-induced liver damage through inflammation and endoplasmic 
reticulum stress.

Imbernon M(1)(2), Sanchez-Rebordelo E(1)(2), Romero-Picó A(1)(2), Kalló I(3), 
Chee MJ(4), Porteiro B(1)(2), Al-Massadi O(1)(2), Contreras C(1)(2), Fernø J(5), 
Senra A(1)(2), Gallego R(6), Folgueira C(1)(2)(7), Seoane LM(2)(7), van Gestel 
M(8), Adan RA(8), Liposits Z(3), Dieguez C(1)(2), López M(1)(2), Nogueiras 
R(9)(10).

Author information:
(1)Department of Physiology, CIMUS, University of Santiago de 
Compostela-Instituto de Investigación Sanitaria.
(2)CIBER Fisiopatología de la Obesidad y Nutrición (CIBERobn), Santiago de 
Compostela, Spain.
(3)Laboratory of Endocrine Neurobiology, Institute of Experimental Medicine, 
Hungarian Academy of Sciences, Budapest, Hungary.
(4)Division of Endocrinology, Department of Medicine, Beth Israel Deaconess 
Medical Center, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA.
(5)Department of Clinical Science, KG Jebsen Center for Diabetes Research, 
University of Bergen, Bergen, Norway.
(6)Department of Morphological Sciences, School of Medicine, University of 
Santiago de Compostela-Instituto de Investigación Sanitaria.
(7)Grupo Fisiopatología Endocrina, Instituto de Investigación Sanitaria de 
Santiago de Compostela, Complexo, Hospitalario Universitario de Santiago 
(CHUS/SERGAS), Santiago de Compostela, Spain.
(8)Department of Neuroscience and Pharmacology, Rudolf Magnus Institute of 
Neuroscience, University Medical Center Utrecht, Utrecht, The Netherlands.
(9)Department of Physiology, CIMUS, University of Santiago de 
Compostela-Instituto de Investigación Sanitaria. ruben.nogueiras@usc.es.
(10)CIBER Fisiopatología de la Obesidad y Nutrición (CIBERobn), Santiago de 
Compostela, Spain. ruben.nogueiras@usc.es.

The opioid system is widely known to modulate the brain reward system and thus 
affect the behavior of humans and other animals, including feeding. We 
hypothesized that the hypothalamic opioid system might also control energy 
metabolism in peripheral tissues. Mice lacking the kappa opioid receptor (κOR) 
and adenoviral vectors overexpressing or silencing κOR were stereotaxically 
delivered in the lateral hypothalamic area (LHA) of rats. Vagal denervation was 
performed to assess its effect on liver metabolism. Endoplasmic reticulum (ER) 
stress was inhibited by pharmacological (tauroursodeoxycholic acid) and genetic 
(overexpression of the chaperone glucose-regulated protein 78 kDa) approaches. 
The peripheral effects on lipid metabolism were assessed by histological 
techniques and western blot. We show that in the LHA κOR directly controls 
hepatic lipid metabolism through the parasympathetic nervous system, independent 
of changes in food intake and body weight. κOR colocalizes with melanin 
concentrating hormone receptor 1 (MCH-R1) in the LHA, and genetic disruption of 
κOR reduced melanin concentrating hormone-induced liver steatosis. The 
functional relevance of these findings was given by the fact that silencing of 
κOR in the LHA attenuated both methionine choline-deficient, diet-induced and 
choline-deficient, high-fat diet-induced ER stress, inflammation, 
steatohepatitis, and fibrosis, whereas overexpression of κOR in this area 
promoted liver steatosis. Overexpression of glucose-regulated protein 78 kDa in 
the liver abolished hypothalamic κOR-induced steatosis by reducing hepatic ER 
stress.
CONCLUSIONS: This study reveals a novel hypothalamic-parasympathetic circuit 
modulating hepatic function through inflammation and ER stress independent of 
changes in food intake or body weight; these findings might have implications 
for the clinical use of opioid receptor antagonists. (Hepatology 
2016;64:1086-1104).

© 2016 The Authors. (Hepatology published by Wiley Periodicals, Inc., on behalf 
of the American Association for the Study of Liver Diseases.

DOI: 10.1002/hep.28716
PMCID: PMC5129461
PMID: 27387967 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
