1. Sleep Sci. 2016 Apr-Jun;9(2):89-93. doi: 10.1016/j.slsci.2016.05.010. Epub
2016  Jun 7.

Subchronical treatment with Fluoxetine modifies the activity of the MCHergic and 
hypocretinergic systems. Evidences from peptide CSF concentration and gene 
expression.

Calegare BF(1), Costa A(2), Fernandes L(1), Dias AL(1), Torterolo P(2), Almeida 
VD(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychobiology, Universidade Federal de São Paulo, São Paulo, 
Brazil.
(2)Department of Physiology, School of Medicine, Universidad de la República, 
Montevideo, Uruguay.

In the postero-lateral hypothalamus are located two neuronal systems that 
utilize the neuropeptides melanin-concentrating hormone (MCH) and hypocretins 
(also called orexins) as neuromodulators. These systems have reciprocal 
connections between them, and project throughout the central nervous system. MCH 
has been involved in the generation of sleep, mainly REM sleep, while 
hypocretins have a critical role in the generation of wakefulness. MCHergic 
activity is also involved in the pathophysiology of major depressive disorder 
(MD). In this regards, intracerebral administration of MCH promotes 
pro-depressive behaviors (i.e., immobility in the forced swimming test) and REM 
sleep hypersomnia, which is an important trait of depression. Furthermore, the 
antagonism of the MCHR-1 receptor has a reliable antidepressant effect, 
suggesting that MCH is a pro-depressive factor. Hypocretins have been also 
involved in mood regulation; however, their role in depression is still on 
debate. Taking these data into account, we explored whether systemic 
subchronical treatment with Fluoxetine (FLX), a serotonergic antidepressant, 
modifies the concentration of MCH in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF), as well as 
the preproMCH mRNA expression. We also evaluated the hypocretinergic system by 
quantifying the hypocretin-levels in the CSF and the preprohypocretin mRNA 
expression. Compared to control, FLX increased the levels of preprohypocretin 
mRNA without affecting the hypocretin-1 CSF levels. On the contrary, FLX 
significantly decreased the MCH CSF concentration without affecting the 
preproMCH gene expression. This result is in agreement with the fact that MCH 
serum level diminishes during the antidepressant treatment in MD, and supports 
the hypothesis that an increase in the MCHergic activity could have 
pro-depressive consequences.

DOI: 10.1016/j.slsci.2016.05.010
PMCID: PMC5022008
PMID: 27656272
