1. Pharmacol Biochem Behav. 2018 Dec;175:53-61. doi: 10.1016/j.pbb.2018.09.002. 
Epub 2018 Sep 6.

Postnatal overnutrition alters the orexigenic effects of melanin-concentrating 
hormone (MCH) and reduces MCHR1 hypothalamic expression on spontaneous feeding 
and fasting.

Pérez-Morales M(1), Hurtado-Alvarado G(2), Morales-Hernández I(2), 
Gómez-González B(3), Domínguez-Salazar E(2), Velázquez-Moctezuma J(4).

Author information:
(1)Area of Neurosciences, Department of Biology of Reproduction, CBS, 
Universidad Autónoma Metropolitana, Unidad Iztapalapa, México City, México. 
Electronic address: rasnochintsi@gmail.com.
(2)Area of Neurosciences, Department of Biology of Reproduction, CBS, 
Universidad Autónoma Metropolitana, Unidad Iztapalapa, México City, México.
(3)Area of Neurosciences, Department of Biology of Reproduction, CBS, 
Universidad Autónoma Metropolitana, Unidad Iztapalapa, México City, México. 
Electronic address: bgomez@xanum.uam.mx.
(4)Area of Neurosciences, Department of Biology of Reproduction, CBS, 
Universidad Autónoma Metropolitana, Unidad Iztapalapa, México City, México. 
Electronic address: jvm@xanum.uam.mx.

One of the approaches to induce obesity in rodents consists in reducing litter 
size to 3 pups during the lactation period. Animals submitted to this 
manipulation are heavier, hyperphagic and develop several metabolic diseases for 
the rest of their lives. In the present study, under the premise that 
melanin-concentrating hormone (MCH), an orexigenic peptide synthesized by 
neurons of the lateral hypothalamus, is involved in food intake regulation, we 
aimed to measure the hypothalamic expression of its receptor, MCHR1, in adult 
early overfed obese animals and normoweight controls at both ad libitum and food 
deprived conditions. Additionally, we administered MCH, or an antiMCH antibody, 
into the third ventricle of ad libitum-fed rats, or fasted rats, respectively, 
and evaluated chow consumption. Typical nocturnal hyperphagia in rodents was 
elevated in obese animals compared to normoweight controls, accompanied by a 
lower expression of MCHR1 and leptin receptor (Ob-R). Following a 24 h fasting, 
MCHR1 remained lower in SL rats. After 4 h of re-feeding, obese animals ate more 
than normoweight controls. MCH failed to enhance appetite in early overfed obese 
animals and immunoneutralization of the peptide only reduced fasted 
induced-hyperphagia in normoweight controls. These results support the notion 
that both peptide and brain endogenous MCH exert a physiological relevant action 
in food intake regulation in normoweight rats, but that postnatal overnutrition 
disturbs this system, as reflected by MCHR1 downregulation at both ad libitum 
and fasted conditions and in the lack of response to MCH in both positive- and 
negative-energetic states in early overfed obese animals.

Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pbb.2018.09.002
PMID: 30196088 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
