1. Int J Neuropsychopharmacol. 2018 Dec 1;21(12):1128-1137. doi: 
10.1093/ijnp/pyy088.

Melanin-Concentrating Hormone (MCH) and MCH-R1 in the Locus Coeruleus May Be 
Involved in the Regulation of Depressive-Like Behavior.

Ye H(1), Cui XY(1), Ding H(1), Cui SY(1), Hu X(1), Liu YT(1), Zhao HL(1), Zhang 
YH(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Peking University, School of Basic Medical 
Science, Beijing, China.

BACKGROUND: Previous anatomical and behavioral studies have shown that 
melanin-concentrating hormone is involved in the modulation of emotional states. 
However, little is known about brain regions other than the dorsal raphe nucleus 
that relate the melanin-concentrating hormone-ergic system to depressive states. 
Numerous studies have shown that the locus coeruleus is involved in the 
regulation of depression and sleep. Although direct physiological evidence is 
lacking, previous studies suggest that melanin-concentrating hormone release in 
the locus coeruleus decreases neuronal discharge. However, remaining unclear is 
whether the melanin-concentrating hormone-ergic system in the locus coeruleus is 
related to depressive-like behavior.
METHOD: We treated rats with an intra-locus coeruleus injection of 
melanin-concentrating hormone, intracerebroventricular injection of 
melanin-concentrating hormone, or chronic subcutaneous injections of 
corticosterone to induce different depressive-like phenotypes. We then assessed 
the effects of the melanin-concentrating hormone receptor 1 antagonist 
SNAP-94847 on depressive-like behavior in the forced swim test and the sucrose 
preference test.
RESULTS: The intra-locus coeruleus and intracerebroventricular injections of 
melanin-concentrating hormone and chronic injections of corticosterone increased 
immobility time in the forced swim test and decreased sucrose preference in the 
sucrose preference test. All these depressive-like behaviors were reversed by an 
intra-locus coeruleus microinjection of SNAP-94847.
CONCLUSIONS: These results suggest that the melanin-concentrating hormone-ergic 
system in the locus coeruleus might play an important role in the regulation of 
depressive-like behavior.

DOI: 10.1093/ijnp/pyy088
PMCID: PMC6276047
PMID: 30335150 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
