1. J Chem Neuroanat. 2019 Jul;98:55-62. doi: 10.1016/j.jchemneu.2019.03.003. Epub
 2019 Mar 31.

Melanin-concentrating hormone receptor-1 is located in primary cilia of the 
dorsal raphe neurons.

Niño-Rivero S(1), Torterolo P(1), Lagos P(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Physiology, School of Medicine, Universidad de la República, 
Montevideo, Uruguay.
(2)Department of Physiology, School of Medicine, Universidad de la República, 
Montevideo, Uruguay. Electronic address: plagos@fmed.edu.uy.

The melanin-concentrating hormone (MCH) is a peptidergic neuromodulator 
synthesized by neurons of the posterior hypothalamus and incerto-hypothalamic 
area. These neurons project throughout the central nervous system, including the 
dorsal raphe nucleus (DRN). In rodents, MCH exerts its biological functions 
through the MCHR-1 receptor. We previously demonstrated that intra-DRN MCH 
administration increases REM sleep time and induces a pro-depressive behavior. 
We also determined that MCH modulates the neuronal firing rate and serotonin 
release within this nucleus. Previous studies in mice identified the presence of 
MCHR-1 in neurons located in the olfactory tubercle, hypothalamus, and nucleus 
accumbens, in a specialized neuronal appendage: the neuronal primary cilia. 
However, the subcellular location of MCHR-1 protein in the DRN is still unknown. 
Hence, the aim of the present study was to explore, by means of single and 
double immunohistochemical procedures, whether MCHR-1 is present in neuronal 
primary cilia in serotonergic and GABAergic neurons located in the DRN of the 
rat. We demonstrated colocalization of MCHR-1 with type III adenylyl cyclase 
(AC-III), a neuronal ciliary marker, in the DRN and confirmed their 
colocalization in the hippocampus and cerebral cortex of the rat. We quantified 
the proportion of serotoninergic and GABAergic neurons that coexpress MCHR-1 at 
the mid-caudal and mid-rostral levels of the DRN: 4% and 12%, respectively. 
Furthermore, approximately 10% of the total number of MCHR-1 immunoreactive 
primary cilia belonged to serotonergic neurons, whilst 12% were appendages of 
GABAergic neurons. These morphological data allow us to conclude that the 
mechanism by which MCH modulates the activity of DRN neurons is through MCHR-1 
receptors present in the primary cilia of different neurochemical phenotypes. 
New experiments are needed to understand the functional rationale of the 
unexpected localization of these receptors and to explore their presence in 
other neuronal phenotypes.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jchemneu.2019.03.003
PMID: 30943431 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
