1. Front Cell Neurosci. 2019 Jun 12;13:266. doi: 10.3389/fncel.2019.00266. 
eCollection 2019.

Hedgehog Pathway Activation Alters Ciliary Signaling in Primary Hypothalamic 
Cultures.

Bansal R(1), Engle SE(1), Antonellis PJ(1), Whitehouse LS(1), Baucum AJ 
2nd(1)(2), Cummins TR(1)(2), Reiter JF(3), Berbari NF(1)(2)(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, Indiana University - Purdue University Indianapolis, 
Indianapolis, IN, United States.
(2)Stark Neurosciences Research Institute, Indianapolis, IN, United States.
(3)Department of Biochemistry and Biophysics, Cardiovascular Research Institute, 
University of California, San Francisco, San Francisco, CA, United States.
(4)Center for Diabetes and Metabolic Disorders Research, Indiana University 
School of Medicine, Indianapolis, IN, United States.

Primary cilia dysfunction has been associated with hyperphagia and obesity in 
both ciliopathy patients and mouse models of cilia perturbation. Neurons 
throughout the brain possess these solitary cellular appendages, including in 
the feeding centers of the hypothalamus. Several cell biology questions 
associated with primary neuronal cilia signaling are challenging to address in 
vivo. Here we utilize primary hypothalamic neuronal cultures to study ciliary 
signaling in relevant cell types. Importantly, these cultures contain neuronal 
populations critical for appetite and satiety such as pro-opiomelanocortin 
(POMC) and agouti related peptide (AgRP) expressing neurons and are thus useful 
for studying signaling involved in feeding behavior. Correspondingly, these 
cultured neurons also display electrophysiological activity and respond to both 
local and peripheral signals that act on the hypothalamus to influence feeding 
behaviors, such as leptin and melanin concentrating hormone (MCH). 
Interestingly, we found that cilia mediated hedgehog signaling, generally 
associated with developmental processes, can influence ciliary GPCR signaling 
(Mchr1) in terminally differentiated neurons. Specifically, pharmacological 
activation of the hedgehog-signaling pathway using the smoothened agonist, SAG, 
attenuated the ability of neurons to respond to ligands (MCH) of ciliary GPCRs. 
Understanding how the hedgehog pathway influences cilia GPCR signaling in 
terminally differentiated neurons could reveal the molecular mechanisms 
associated with clinical features of ciliopathies, such as 
hyperphagia-associated obesity.

DOI: 10.3389/fncel.2019.00266
PMCID: PMC6582312
PMID: 31249512
