1. Behav Brain Res. 2019 Nov 18;374:112120. doi: 10.1016/j.bbr.2019.112120. Epub 
2019 Jul 31.

Melanin-concentrating hormone in the Locus Coeruleus aggravates helpless 
behavior in stressed rats.

Urbanavicius J(1), Fabius S(1), Roncalho A(2), Joca S(3), Torterolo P(4), Scorza 
C(5).

Author information:
(1)Departament of Experimental Neuropharmacology, Instituto de Investigaciones 
Biológicas Clemente Estable, Uruguay.
(2)Department of Pharmacology, School of Medicine of Ribeirão Preto, University 
of São Paulo, Ribeirão Preto, Brazil.
(3)Department of Physics and Chemistry, School of Pharmaceutical Sciences, 
University of São Paulo, Ribeirão Preto, Brazil.
(4)Department of Physiology, School of Medicine, Universidad de la República, 
Montevideo, Uruguay.
(5)Departament of Experimental Neuropharmacology, Instituto de Investigaciones 
Biológicas Clemente Estable, Uruguay. Electronic address: cscorza@iibce.edu.uy.

Animal studies have shown that antagonists of receptor 1 of 
Melanin-Concentrating Hormone (MCH-R1) elicit antidepressive-like behavior, 
suggesting that MCH-R1 might be a novel target for the treatment of depression 
and supports the hypothesis that MCHergic signaling regulates depressive-like 
behaviors. Consistent with the evidence that MCHergic neurons send projections 
to dorsal and median raphe nuclei, we have previously demonstrated that MCH 
microinjections in both nuclei induced a depressive-like behavior. Even though 
MCH neurons also project to Locus Coeruleus (LC), only a few studies have 
reported the behavioral and neurochemical effect of MCH into the LC. We studied 
the effects of MCH (100 and 200 ng) into the LC on coping-stress related 
behaviors associated with depression, using two different behavioral tests: the 
forced swimming test (FST) and the learned helplessness (LH). To characterize 
the functional interaction between MCH and the noradrenergic LC system, we also 
evaluated the neurochemical effects of MCH (100 ng) on the extracellular levels 
of noradrenaline (NA) in the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC), an important LC 
terminal region involved in emotional processing. MCH administration into the LC 
elicited a depressive-like behavior evidenced in both paradigms. Interestingly, 
in the LH, MCH (100) elicited a significant increase in escape failures only in 
stressed animals. A significant decrease in prefrontal levels of NA was observed 
after MCH microinjection into the LC. Our results demonstrate that increased MCH 
signaling into the LC triggers depressive-like behaviors, especially in stressed 
animals. These data further corroborate the important role of MCH in the 
neurobiology of depression.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbr.2019.112120
PMID: 31376444 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
