1. Int J Neuropsychopharmacol. 2020 Mar 10;23(1):53-65. doi: 10.1093/ijnp/pyz051.

Melanin Concentrating Hormone Signaling Deficits in Schizophrenia: Association 
With Memory and Social Impairments and Abnormal Sensorimotor Gating.

Vawter MP(1), Schulmann A(1)(2), Alhassen L(1), Alhassen W(3)(4), Hamzeh AR(5), 
Sakr J(4), Pauluk L(3), Yoshimura R(3), Wang X(3), Dai Q(3), Sanathara N(3), 
Civelli O(3)(4)(6), Alachkar A(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry and Human Behavior, School of Medicine, University 
of California, Irvine, CA.
(2)Janelia Research Campus, Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Ashburn, VA.
(3)Department of Pharmacology, School of Medicine, University of California, 
Irvine, CA.
(4)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, University of California, Irvine, CA.
(5)John Curtin School of Medical Research, Australian National University, 
Canberra.
(6)Department of Developmental and Cell Biology, School of Medicine, University 
of California, Irvine, CA.

BACKGROUND: Evidence from anatomical, pharmacological, and genetic studies 
supports a role for the neuropeptide melanin concentrating hormone system in 
modulating emotional and cognitive functions. Genome-wide association studies 
revealed a potential association between the melanin concentrating hormone 
receptor (MCHR1) gene locus and schizophrenia, and the largest genome-wide 
association study conducted to date shows a credible genome-wide association.
METHODS: We analyzed MCHR1 and pro-melanin concentrating hormone RNA-Seq 
expression in the prefrontal cortex in schizophrenia patients and healthy 
controls. Disruptions in the melanin concentrating hormone system were modeled 
in the mouse brain by germline deletion of MCHR1 and by conditional ablation of 
melanin concentrating hormone expressing neurons using a Cre-inducible 
diphtheria toxin system.
RESULTS: MCHR1 expression is decreased in the prefrontal cortex of schizophrenia 
samples (false discovery rate (FDR) P < .05, CommonMind and PsychEncode combined 
datasets, n = 901) while pro-melanin concentrating hormone is below the 
detection threshold. MCHR1 expression decreased with aging (P = 6.6E-57) in 
human dorsolateral prefrontal cortex. The deletion of MCHR1 was found to lead to 
behavioral abnormalities mimicking schizophrenia-like phenotypes: hyperactivity, 
increased stereotypic and repetitive behavior, social impairment, impaired 
sensorimotor gating, and disrupted cognitive functions. Conditional ablation of 
pro-melanin concentrating hormone neurons increased repetitive behavior and 
produced a deficit in sensorimotor gating.
CONCLUSIONS: Our study indicates that early disruption of the melanin 
concentrating hormone system interferes with neurodevelopmental processes, which 
may contribute to the pathogenesis of schizophrenia. Further neurobiological 
research on the developmental timing and circuits that are affected by melanin 
concentrating hormone may lead to a therapeutic target for early prevention of 
schizophrenia.

© The Author(s) 2019. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of CINP.

DOI: 10.1093/ijnp/pyz051
PMCID: PMC7442395
PMID: 31563948 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
