1. Nihon Yakurigaku Zasshi. 2019;154(4):179-185. doi: 10.1254/fpj.154.179.

[Selective signaling pathway via feeding-related ciliary GPCR, 
melanin-concentrating hormone receptor 1].

[Article in Japanese]

Saito Y(1), Hamamoto A(2), Kobayashi Y(1).

Author information:
(1)Graduate School of Integrated Sciences for Life, Hiroshima University.
(2)Department of Chemistry and Biomolecular Science, Faculty of Engineering, 
Gifu University.

G-protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs), which constitute a highly diverse family of 
seven transmembrane receptors, respond to external signals and regulate a 
variety of cellular and physiological processes. GPCRs are encoded by about 800 
different genes in human and they represent the largest family of drug targets 
in clinical trials, which accounts for about 30% of approved drugs acting on 108 
unique GPCRs. Signaling through GPCRs can be optimized by enriching receptors, 
selective binding partners, and downstream effectors in discrete cellular 
environment. The primary cilium is a ubiquitous organelle that functions as a 
sensory antenna for surrounding physical and chemical stimuli. Primary cilium's 
compartment is as little as 1/10,000th of the total cell volume. Therefore, the 
ciliary membrane is highly enriched for specific signaling molecules, allowing 
the primary cilium to organize signaling in a highly ordered microenvironment. 
Recently, a set of non-olfactory GPCRs such as somatostatin receptor 3 and 
melanin-concentrating hormone receptor 1 (MCHR1) have been found to be 
selectively targeted to cilia on several mammalian cell types including neuronal 
cells both in vitro and in vivo approaches. Moreover, investigations into the 
pathophysiology have implicated GPCR ciliary signaling in a number of 
developmental and cellular pathways. Thus, cilia are now considered as an 
increasingly important connection for GPCR signaling. This review summarizes our 
current understanding of the signaling pathways though ciliary GPCR, especially 
feeding- and mood-related GPCR MCHR1, along with specific biological phenomenon 
as cilia length shortening.

DOI: 10.1254/fpj.154.179
PMID: 31597896 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
