1. Mol Metab. 2019 Nov;29:114-123. doi: 10.1016/j.molmet.2019.08.018. Epub 2019
Aug  28.

Conditional deletion of melanin-concentrating hormone receptor 1 from GABAergic 
neurons increases locomotor activity.

Chee MJ(1), Hebert AJ(2), Briançon N(3), Flaherty SE 3rd(3), Pissios P(3), 
Maratos-Flier E(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neuroscience, Carleton University, Ottawa, ON, Canada; Division 
of Endocrinology, Department of Medicine, Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, 
Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA, USA. Electronic address: 
melissa.chee@carleton.ca.
(2)Department of Neuroscience, Carleton University, Ottawa, ON, Canada; Division 
of Endocrinology, Department of Medicine, Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, 
Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA, USA.
(3)Division of Endocrinology, Department of Medicine, Beth Israel Deaconess 
Medical Center, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA, USA.

OBJECTIVE: Melanin-concentrating hormone (MCH) plays a key role in regulating 
energy balance. MCH acts via its receptor MCHR1, and MCHR1 deletion increases 
energy expenditure and locomotor activity, which is associated with a 
hyperdopaminergic state. Since MCHR1 expression is widespread, the neurons 
supporting the effects of MCH on energy expenditure are not clearly defined. 
There is a high density of MCHR1 neurons in the striatum, and these neurons are 
known to be GABAergic. We thus determined if MCH acts via this GABAergic 
neurocircuit to mediate energy balance.
METHODS: We generated a Mchr1-flox mouse and crossed it with the Vgat-cre mouse 
to assess if MCHR1 deletion from GABAergic neurons expressing the vesicular GABA 
transporter (vGAT) in female Vgat-Mchr1-KO mice resulted in lower body weights 
or increased energy expenditure. Additionally, we determined if MCHR1-expressing 
neurons within the accumbens form part of the neural circuit underlying 
MCH-mediated energy balance by delivering an adeno-associated virus expressing 
Cre recombinase to the accumbens nucleus of Mchr1-flox mice. To evaluate if a 
dysregulated dopaminergic tone leads to their hyperactivity, we determined if 
the dopamine reuptake blocker GBR12909 prolonged the drug-induced locomotor 
activity in Vgat-Mchr1-KO mice. Furthermore, we also performed amperometry 
recordings to test whether MCHR1 deletion increases dopamine output within the 
accumbens and whether MCH can suppress dopamine release.
RESULTS: Vgat-Mchr1-KO mice have lower body weight, increased energy 
expenditure, and increased locomotor activity. Similarly, restricting MCHR1 
deletion to the accumbens nucleus also increased locomotor activity. 
Vgat-Mchr1-KO mice show increased and prolonged sensitivity to GBR12909-induced 
locomotor activity, and amperometry recordings revealed that GBR12909 elevated 
accumbens dopamine levels to twice that of controls, thus MCHR1 deletion may 
lead to a hyperdopaminergic state that mediates their observed hyperactivity. 
Consistent with the inhibitory effect of MCH, we found that MCH acutely 
suppresses dopamine release within the accumbens.
CONCLUSIONS: As with established models of systemic MCH or MCHR1 deletion, we 
found that MCHR1 deletion from GABAergic neurons, specifically those within the 
accumbens nucleus, also led to increased locomotor activity. A hyperdopaminergic 
state underlies this increased locomotor activity, and is consistent with our 
finding that MCH signaling within the accumbens nucleus suppresses dopamine 
release. In effect, MCHR1 deletion may disinhibit dopamine release leading to 
the observed hyperactivity.

Copyright © 2019 The Authors. Published by Elsevier GmbH.. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.molmet.2019.08.018
PMCID: PMC6745487
PMID: 31668382 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
