1. Front Neurosci. 2019 Nov 26;13:1280. doi: 10.3389/fnins.2019.01280.
eCollection  2019.

The Melanin-Concentrating Hormone (MCH) System: A Tale of Two Peptides.

Diniz GB(1)(2), Bittencourt JC(1)(3).

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Anatomia, Instituto de Ciências Biomedicas, Universidade de 
São Paulo, São Paulo, Brazil.
(2)Department of Neurosurgery, Yale School of Medicine, New Haven, CT, United 
States.
(3)Nucleo de Neurociencias e Comportamento, Instituto de Psicologia, 
Universidade de São Paulo, São Paulo, Brazil.

The melanin-concentrating hormone (MCH) system is a robust integrator of 
exogenous and endogenous information, modulating arousal and energy balance in 
mammals. Its predominant function in teleosts, however, is to concentrate 
melanin in the scales, contributing to the adaptive color change observed in 
several teleost species. These contrasting functions resulted from a gene 
duplication that occurred after the teleost divergence, which resulted in the 
generation of two MCH-coding genes in this clade, which acquired distinctive 
sequences, distribution, and functions, examined in detail here. We also 
describe the distribution of MCH immunoreactivity and gene expression in a large 
number of species, in an attempt to identify its core elements. While initially 
originated as a periventricular peptide, with an intimate relationship with the 
third ventricle, multiple events of lateral migration occurred during evolution, 
making the ventrolateral and dorsolateral hypothalamus the predominant sites of 
MCH in teleosts and mammals, respectively. Substantial differences between 
species can be identified, likely reflecting differences in habitat and 
behavior. This observation aligns well with the idea that MCH is a major 
integrator of internal and external information, ensuring an appropriate 
response to ensure the organism's homeostasis. New studies on the MCH system in 
species that have not yet been investigated will help us understand more 
precisely how these habitat changes are connected to the hypothalamic 
neurochemical circuits, paving the way to new intervention strategies that may 
be used with pharmacological purposes.

Copyright © 2019 Diniz and Bittencourt.

DOI: 10.3389/fnins.2019.01280
PMCID: PMC6901935
PMID: 31849590
