1. J Neurosci Res. 2020 Oct;98(10):2045-2071. doi: 10.1002/jnr.24651. Epub 2020
Jun  12.

Ciliary melanin-concentrating hormone receptor 1 (MCHR1) is widely distributed 
in the murine CNS in a sex-independent manner.

Diniz GB(1)(2), Battagello DS(1), Klein MO(1), Bono BSM(3), Ferreira JGP(1), 
Motta-Teixeira LC(1), Duarte JCG(1), Presse F(4), Nahon JL(4), Adamantidis A(5), 
Chee MJ(3), Sita LV(1), Bittencourt JC(1)(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Anatomy, Institute of Biomedical Sciences, University of Sao 
Paulo, Sao Paulo, Brazil.
(2)Department of Neurosurgery, Yale School of Medicine, New Haven, CT, USA.
(3)Department of Neuroscience, Carleton University, Ottawa, ON, Canada.
(4)Institut de Pharmacologie Moléculaire et Cellulaire (IPMC), Université Côte 
d'Azur, CNRS, Valbonne, France.
(5)Department of Neurology, Inselspital, University of Bern, Bern, Switzerland.
(6)Center for Neuroscience and Behavior, Institute of Psychology, University of 
Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, Brazil.

Melanin-concentrating hormone (MCH) is a ubiquitous vertebrate neuropeptide 
predominantly synthesized by neurons of the diencephalon that can act through 
two G protein-coupled receptors, called MCHR1 and MCHR2. The expression of Mchr1 
has been investigated in both rats and mice, but its synthesis remains poorly 
described. After identifying an antibody that detects MCHR1 with high 
specificity, we employed immunohistochemistry to map the distribution of MCHR1 
in the CNS of rats and mice. Multiple neurochemical markers were also employed 
to characterize some of the neuronal populations that synthesize MCHR1. Our 
results show that MCHR1 is abundantly found in a subcellular structure called 
the primary cilium, which has been associated, among other functions, with the 
detection of free neurochemical messengers present in the extracellular space. 
Ciliary MCHR1 was found in a wide range of areas, including the olfactory bulb, 
cortical mantle, striatum, hippocampal formation, amygdala, midline thalamic 
nuclei, periventricular hypothalamic nuclei, midbrain areas, and in the spinal 
cord. No differences were observed between male and female mice, and 
interspecies differences were found in the caudate-putamen nucleus and the 
subgranular zone. Ciliary MCHR1 was found in close association with several 
neurochemical markers, including tyrosine hydroxylase, calretinin, kisspeptin, 
estrogen receptor, oxytocin, vasopressin, and corticotropin-releasing factor. 
Given the role of neuronal primary cilia in sensing free neurochemical 
messengers in the extracellular fluid, the widespread distribution of ciliary 
MCHR1, and the diverse neurochemical populations who synthesize MCHR1, our data 
indicate that nonsynaptic communication plays a prominent role in the normal 
function of the MCH system.

© 2020 Wiley Periodicals LLC.

DOI: 10.1002/jnr.24651
PMID: 32530066 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
