1. Microscopy (Oxf). 2020 Oct 30;69(5):277-285. doi: 10.1093/jmicro/dfaa035.

Analysis of ciliary status via G-protein-coupled receptors localized on primary 
cilia.

Kobayashi Y(1), Hamamoto A(2), Saito Y(1).

Author information:
(1)Graduate School of Integrated Sciences for Life, Hiroshima University, 1-7-1 
Kagamiyama, Higashi-Hiroshima, Hiroshima 739-8521, Japan.
(2)Department of Chemistry and Biomolecular Science, Faculty of Engineering, 
Gifu University, 1-1 Yanagido, Gifu, Gifu 502-0857, Japan.

G-protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) comprise the largest and most diverse cell 
surface receptor family, with more than 800 known GPCRs identified in the human 
genome. Binding of an extracellular cue to a GPCR results in intracellular G 
protein activation, after which a sequence of events, can be amplified and 
optimized by selective binding partners and downstream effectors in spatially 
discrete cellular environments. Because GPCRs are widely expressed in the body, 
they help to regulate an incredible range of physiological processes from 
sensation to growth to hormone responses. Indeed, it is estimated that ∼ 30% of 
all clinically approved drugs act by binding to GPCRs. The primary cilium is a 
sensory organelle composed of a microtubule axoneme that extends from the basal 
body. The ciliary membrane is highly enriched in specific signaling components, 
allowing the primary cilium to efficiently convey signaling cascades in a highly 
ordered microenvironment. Recent data demonstrated that a limited number of 
non-olfactory GPCRs, including somatostatin receptor 3 and melanin-concentrating 
hormone receptor 1 (MCHR1), are selectively localized to cilia on several 
mammalian cell types including neuronal cells. Utilizing cilia-specific cell 
biological and molecular biological approaches, evidence has accumulated to 
support the biological importance of ciliary GPCR signaling followed by cilia 
structural changes. Thus, cilia are now considered a unique sensory platform for 
integration of GPCR signaling toward juxtaposed cytoplasmic structures. Herein, 
we review ciliary GPCRs and focus on a novel role of MCHR1 in ciliary length 
control that will impact ciliary signaling capacity and neuronal function.

© The Author(s) 2020. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of The 
Japanese Society of Microscopy. All rights reserved. For permissions, please 
e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/jmicro/dfaa035
PMID: 32627821 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
