1. Front Endocrinol (Lausanne). 2020 Jul 31;11:463. doi:
10.3389/fendo.2020.00463.  eCollection 2020.

The Rat Mammary Gland as a Novel Site of Expression of Melanin-Concentrating 
Hormone Receptor 1 mRNA and Its Protein Immunoreactivity.

Battagello DS(1)(2), Lorenzon AR(3), Diniz GB(2), Motta-Teixeira LC(4), Klein 
MO(2), Ferreira JGP(2), Arias CM(5), Adamantidis A(6), Sita LV(2), Cipolla-Neto 
J(4), Bevilacqua EMAF(3), Sawchenko PE(5), Bittencourt JC(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Instituto de Psicologia, Nucleo de Neurociencias e Comportamento, 
Universidade de São Paulo, São Paulo, Brazil.
(2)Instituto de Ciencias Biomedicas, Laboratorio de Neuroanatomia Quimica, 
Universidade de São Paulo, São Paulo, Brazil.
(3)Departmento de Biologia Celular e Do Desenvolvimento, Instituto de Ciencias 
Biomedicas, Universidade de São Paulo, São Paulo, Brazil.
(4)Departmento de Fisiologia e Biofisica, Instituto de Ciencias Biomedicas, 
Universidade de São Paulo, São Paulo, Brazil.
(5)Laboratory of Neuronal Structure and Function, The Salk Institute for 
Biological Studies, La Jolla, CA, United States.
(6)Department of Neurology, Inselspital, University of Bern, Bern, Switzerland.

Lactation is a complex physiological process, depending on orchestrated central 
and peripheral events, including substantial brain plasticity. Among these 
events is a novel expression of pro-melanin-concentrating hormone (Pmch) mRNA in 
the rodent hypothalamus, such as the ventral part of the medial preoptic area 
(vmMPOA). This expression reaches its highest levels around postpartum day 19 
(PPD19), when dams transition from lactation to the weaning period. The 
appearance of this lactation-related Pmch expression occurs simultaneously with 
the presence of one of the Pmch products, melanin-concentrating hormone (MCH), 
in the serum. Given the relevance of the MPOA to maternal physiology and the 
contemporaneity between Pmch expression in this structure and the weaning 
period, we hypothesized that MCH has a role in the termination of lactation, 
acting as a mediator between central and peripheral changes. To test this, we 
investigated the presence of the MCH receptor 1 (MCHR1) and its gene expression 
in the mammary gland of female rats in different stages of the reproductive 
cycle. To that end, in situ hybridization, RT-PCR, RT-qPCR, nucleotide 
sequencing, immunohistochemistry, and Western blotting were employed. Although 
Mchr1 expression was detected in the epidermis and dermis of both diestrus and 
lactating rats, parenchymal expression was exclusively found in the functional 
mammary gland of lactating rats. The expression of Mchr1 mRNA oscillated through 
the lactation period and reached its maximum in PPD19 dams. Presence of MCHR1 
was confirmed with immunohistochemistry with preferential location of MCHR1 
immunoreactive cells in the alveolar secretory cells. As was the case for gene 
expression, the MCHR1 protein levels were significantly higher in PPD19 than in 
other groups. Our data demonstrate the presence of an anatomical basis for the 
participation of MCH peptidergic system on the control of lactation through the 
mammary gland, suggesting that MCH could modulate a prolactation action in early 
postpartum days and the opposite role at the end of the lactation.

Copyright © 2020 Battagello, Lorenzon, Diniz, Motta-Teixeira, Klein, Ferreira, 
Arias, Adamantidis, Sita, Cipolla-Neto, Bevilacqua, Sawchenko and Bittencourt.

DOI: 10.3389/fendo.2020.00463
PMCID: PMC7411258
PMID: 32849267 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
