1. J Chem Neuroanat. 2021 Jul;114:101959. doi: 10.1016/j.jchemneu.2021.101959.
Epub  2021 Apr 10.

In vivo uptake of a fluorescent conjugate of melanin-concentrating hormone in 
the rat brain.

Ruiz-Viroga V(1), Urbanavicius J(2), Torterolo P(1), Lagos P(3).

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Fisiología, Facultad de Medicina, Universidad de la 
República, Montevideo, Uruguay.
(2)Departamento de Neurofarmacología Experimental, Instituto de Investigaciones 
Biológicas Clemente Estable, Montevideo, Uruguay.
(3)Departamento de Fisiología, Facultad de Medicina, Universidad de la 
República, Montevideo, Uruguay. Electronic address: plagos@fmed.edu.uy.

Melanin-concentrating hormone (MCH) is a hypothalamic neuropeptide synthesized 
by posterior hypothalamic and incerto-hypothalamic neurons that project 
throughout the central nervous system. The MCHergic system modulates several 
important functions such as feeding behavior, mood and sleep. MCH exerts its 
biological functions through interaction with the MCHR-1 receptor, the only 
functional receptor present in rodents. The internalization process of MCHR-1 
triggered by MCH binding was described in vitro in non-neuronal heterologous 
systems with over-expression of MCHR-1. Reports of in vivo MCHR-1 
internalization dynamics are scarce, however, this is an important process to 
explore based on the critical functions of the MCHergic system. We had 
previously determined that 60 min after intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) 
microinjections of MCH conjugated with fluorophore rhodamine (R-MCH), the dorsal 
and median raphe nucleus presented R-MCH positive labeled neurons. In the 
present work, we further studied the in vivo uptake process focusing on the 
distribution and time-dependent pattern of R-MCH positive cells 10, 20 and 
60 min (T10, T20 and T60, respectively) after i.c.v. microinjection of R-MCH. We 
also explored this uptake process to see whether it was receptor- and 
clathrin-dependent and examined the phenotype of R-MCH positive cells and their 
proximity to MCHergic fibers. We found a great number of R-MCH positive cells 
with high fluorescence intensity in the lateral septum, nucleus accumbens and 
hippocampus at T20 and T60 (but not at T10), while a lower number with low 
intensity was observed in the dorsal raphe nucleus. At T20, in rats pre-treated 
with a MCHR-1 antagonist (ATC-0175) or with phenylarsine oxide (PAO), a clathrin 
endocytosis inhibitor, a robust decrease (> 50 %) of R-MCH uptake occurred in 
these structures. The R-MCH positive cells were identified as neurons (NeuN 
positive, GFAP negative) and some MCHergic fibers run in the vicinities of them. 
We concluded that neurons localized at structures that were close to the 
ventricular surfaces could uptake R-MCH in vivo through a receptor-dependent and 
clathrin-mediated process. Our results support volume transmission of MCH 
through the cerebrospinal fluid to reach distant targets. Finally, we propose 
that R-MCH would be an effective tool to study MCH-uptake in vivo.

Copyright © 2021 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jchemneu.2021.101959
PMID: 33848617 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
