1. Mol Psychiatry. 2022 Jul;27(7):2927-2939. doi: 10.1038/s41380-022-01523-9.
Epub  2022 Mar 29.

Phenotypes, mechanisms and therapeutics: insights from bipolar disorder GWAS 
findings.

Li M(1)(2)(3), Li T(4)(5), Xiao X(6), Chen J(7), Hu Z(8)(9)(10)(11)(12)(13)(14), 
Fang Y(15)(16).

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Animal Models and Human Disease Mechanisms of the Chinese 
Academy of Sciences and Yunnan Province, Kunming Institute of Zoology, Chinese 
Academy of Sciences, Kunming, Yunnan, China. limingkiz@mail.kiz.ac.cn.
(2)Affiliated Mental Health Center & Hangzhou Seventh People's Hospital, 
Zhejiang University School of Medicine, Hangzhou, Zhejiang, China. 
limingkiz@mail.kiz.ac.cn.
(3)KIZ-CUHK Joint Laboratory of Bioresources and Molecular Research in Common 
Diseases, Kunming Institute of Zoology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Kunming, 
Yunnan, China. limingkiz@mail.kiz.ac.cn.
(4)Affiliated Mental Health Center & Hangzhou Seventh People's Hospital, 
Zhejiang University School of Medicine, Hangzhou, Zhejiang, China. 
litaozjusc@zju.edu.cn.
(5)Guangdong-Hong Kong-Macao Greater Bay Area Center for Brain Science and 
Brain-Inspired Intelligence, Guangzhou, China. litaozjusc@zju.edu.cn.
(6)Key Laboratory of Animal Models and Human Disease Mechanisms of the Chinese 
Academy of Sciences and Yunnan Province, Kunming Institute of Zoology, Chinese 
Academy of Sciences, Kunming, Yunnan, China.
(7)Clinical Research Center & Division of Mood Disorders, Shanghai Mental Health 
Center, Shanghai Jiao Tong University School of Medicine, Shanghai, China.
(8)Institute of Molecular Precision Medicine and Hunan Key Laboratory of 
Molecular Precision Medicine, Xiangya Hospital, Central South University, 
Changsha, Hunan, China. huzhonghua@csu.edu.cn.
(9)Department of Critical Care Medicine, Xiangya Hospital, Central South 
University, Changsha, Hunan, China. huzhonghua@csu.edu.cn.
(10)Hunan Provincial Clinical Research Center for Critical Care Medicine, 
Xiangya Hospital, Central South University, Changsha, Hunan, China. 
huzhonghua@csu.edu.cn.
(11)Center for Medical Genetics and Hunan Key Laboratory of Medical Genetics, 
School of Life Sciences, Central South University, Changsha, Hunan, China. 
huzhonghua@csu.edu.cn.
(12)National Clinical Research Center for Geriatric Disorders, Xiangya Hospital, 
Central South University, Changsha, Hunan, China. huzhonghua@csu.edu.cn.
(13)Hunan Key Laboratory of Animal Models for Human Diseases, School of Life 
Sciences, Central South University, Changsha, Hunan, China. 
huzhonghua@csu.edu.cn.
(14)National Clinical Research Center on Mental Disorders, Changsha, Hunan, 
China. huzhonghua@csu.edu.cn.
(15)Clinical Research Center & Division of Mood Disorders, Shanghai Mental 
Health Center, Shanghai Jiao Tong University School of Medicine, Shanghai, 
China. yirufang@aliyun.com.
(16)Shanghai Key Laboratory of Psychotic Disorders, Shanghai, China. 
yirufang@aliyun.com.

Genome-wide association studies (GWAS) have reported substantial genomic loci 
significantly associated with clinical risk of bipolar disorder (BD), and 
studies combining techniques of genetics, neuroscience, neuroimaging, and 
pharmacology are believed to help tackle clinical problems (e.g., identifying 
novel therapeutic targets). However, translating findings of psychiatric 
genetics into biological mechanisms underlying BD pathogenesis remains less 
successful. Biological impacts of majority of BD GWAS risk loci are obscure, and 
the involvement of many GWAS risk genes in this illness is yet to be 
investigated. It is thus necessary to review the progress of applying BD GWAS 
risk genes in the research and intervention of the disorder. A comprehensive 
literature search found that a number of such risk genes had been investigated 
in cellular or animal models, even before they were highlighted in BD GWAS. 
Intriguingly, manipulation of many BD risk genes (e.g., ANK3, CACNA1C, CACNA1B, 
HOMER1, KCNB1, MCHR1, NCAN, SHANK2 etc.) resulted in altered murine behaviors 
largely restoring BD clinical manifestations, including mania-like symptoms such 
as hyperactivity, anxiolytic-like behavior, as well as antidepressant-like 
behavior, and these abnormalities could be attenuated by mood stabilizers. In 
addition to recapitulating phenotypic characteristics of BD, some GWAS risk 
genes further provided clues for the neurobiology of this illness, such as 
aberrant activation and functional connectivity of brain areas in the limbic 
system, and modulated dendritic spine morphogenesis as well as synaptic 
plasticity and transmission. Therefore, BD GWAS risk genes are undoubtedly 
pivotal resources for modeling this illness, and might be translational 
therapeutic targets in the future clinical management of BD. We discuss both 
promising prospects and cautions in utilizing the bulk of useful resources 
generated by GWAS studies. Systematic integrations of findings from genetic and 
neuroscience studies are called for to promote our understanding and 
intervention of BD.

© 2022. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Limited.

DOI: 10.1038/s41380-022-01523-9
PMID: 35351989 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
