1. Int J Neuropsychopharmacol. 2023 Dec 22:pyad069. doi: 10.1093/ijnp/pyad069. 
Online ahead of print.

Chronic stress-induced elevation of melanin-concentrating hormone in the locus 
coeruleus inhibits norepinephrine production and associated with depression-like 
behaviors in rats.

Kurban N(1), Qin Y(1), Zhao HL(1), Hu X(1), Chen X(1), Zhao YY(1), Peng YS(1), 
Wang HB(2), Cui SY(1)(2), Zhang YH(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Peking University, School of Basic Medical 
Science, Beijing 100191, China.
(2)Key Laboratory of Molecular Pharmacology and Drug Evaluation, Ministry of 
Education, Yantai University, Yantai 264005, China.

BACKGROUND: Melanin-concentrating hormone (MCH) is a hypothalamic neuropeptide 
that projects throughout the central nervous system, including the noradrenergic 
locus coeruleus (LC). Our previous study suggested that MCH/MCH receptor 1 
(MCHR1) in the LC may be involved in the regulation of depression. The present 
study investigated whether the role of MCH/MCHR1 in the LC in depression-like 
behaviors is associated with the regulation of norepinephrine.
METHOD: Chronic unpredictable stress (CUS) and an acute intra-LC microinjection 
of MCH induced depression-like behaviors in rats. The MCHR1 antagonist 
SNAP-94847 was also microinjected in the LC in rats that were suffered CUS or 
treated with MCH. The sucrose preference, forced swim, and locomotor tests were 
used for behavioral evaluation. Immunofluorescence staining, ELISA, western blot 
and HPLC-ECD were used to explore the mechanism of MCH/MCHR1 in the regulation 
of depression-like behaviors.
RESULTS: CUS induced an abnormal elevation of MCH levels and downregulated MCHR1 
in the LC, which was highly correlated with the formation of depression-like 
behaviors. SNAP-94847 exerted antidepressant effects in CUS-exposed rats by 
normalizing tyrosine hydroxylase, dopamine β hydroxylase, and norepinephrine in 
the LC. An acute microinjection of MCH induced depression-like behaviors through 
its action on MCHR1. MCHR1 antagonism in the LC significantly reversed the 
MCH-induced downregulation of norepinephrine production by normalizing 
MCHR1-medicated cAMP-PKA signaling.
CONCLUSIONS: Our study confirmed that the MCH/MCHR1 system in the LC may be 
involved in depression-like behaviors by downregulating norepinephrine 
production. These results improve our understanding of the pathogenesis of 
depression that is related to the MCH/MCHR1 system in the LC.

© The Author(s) 2023. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of CINP.

DOI: 10.1093/ijnp/pyad069
PMID: 38135278
